5th Year MIDS Student Handbook | UC Berkeley School of Information Skip to main content Submit UC Berkeley Give Volunteer Contact Us Alumni Alumni Get Involved & Give Back Sign Up to Volunteer Stay Connected I School Slack Alumni News Alumni Events Alumni Accounts Alumni Computing Services MIDS & MICS for Life Career Support Intranet Intranet For Students For MIMS Students MIMS Student Handbook MIMS Forms MIMS Final Project Advising Appointments Tuition & Fees Funding Your Education Technology Support Resources Conference Travel Grant Project Pages MIMS Student Leadership Commencement For MIDS Students MIDS Student Handbook Academic Calendar MIDS Forms Class Registration Acceleration Requests Tuition, Fees, and Funding Who to Contact MIDS Student Representatives Immersion Program Conference Travel Grant Capstone Project Pages Project Pages Commencement For 5th Year MIDS Students 5th Year MIDS Student Handbook Academic Calendar 5th Year MIDS Forms Class Registration Tuition, Fees, and Funding Who to Contact 5th Year MIDS Student Representatives Immersion Program Conference Travel Grant Capstone Project Pages Project Pages Commencement For MICS Students MICS Student Handbook Academic Calendar MICS Forms Class Registration Acceleration Requests Tuition, Fees, and Funding Who to Contact MICS Student Representatives Immersion Program Conference Travel Grant RSA Conference Security Scholar Application Capstone Project Pages Commencement For Ph.D. Students Ph.D. Student Handbook Ph.D. Forms Advising Appointments Ph.D. Resources Funding Your Education Technology Support Resources Ph.D. Desk Assignments Sample Preliminary Exam Questions Careers Project Pages Ph.D. Student Representatives Commencement For Faculty & Staff Faculty Grant Opportunities GSR Hiring GSI, Tutor, & Reader Hiring Visiting Scholar Policies & Procedures Reimbursements Contracts Proposals Staff Calendars Student Surveys Computing Getting Started Email Printing Wi-Fi Web Hosting GitHub Access Slack Software Alumni Computing Policies Facilities & Resources Event Planning Media Release Form South Hall Building Access I School Facilities South Hall Zoom Rooms Equipment for Loan Resources for Students Library Resources Documents Connect With the I School Update Profile My Settings My Settings Update My Profile View My Profile My Quotas Add Print Quota My Content Add content Log out Log out About About Academic Mission Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Resources DEIBJ Leadership History Featured Profiles Featured Faculty Featured Alumni South Hall Work at the I School Subscribe to Email Announcements Logos & Style Guide Directions & Parking Contact Us The School of Information is UC Berkeley’s newest professional school. Located in the center of campus, the I School is a graduate research and education community committed to expanding access to information and to improving its usability, reliability, and credibility while preserving security and privacy. Programs Programs MIMS Program Admissions Career Outcomes Degree Requirements Paths Through the MIMS Degree Final Project Funding Your Education Admissions Events Visit Us Request Information 5th Year MIDS Program Career Outcomes Capstone Project MIDS Program Admissions Jack Larson Data for Good Fellowship Tuition & Fees Capstone Project Women in MIDS MIDS Curriculum News Request Information MICS Program Admissions MICS Student News Tuition & Fees Capstone Project Request Information Ph.D. Program Admissions Career Outcomes Degree Requirements Funding Your Education Dissertations Admissions Events Request Information Graduate Certificates Applied Data Science Certificate ICTD Certificate Citizen Clinic The School of Information offers four degrees: The Master of Information Management and Systems (MIMS) program educates information professionals to provide leadership for an information-driven world. The Master of Information and Data Science (MIDS) is an online degree preparing data science professionals to solve real-world problems. The 5th Year MIDS program is a streamlined path to a MIDS degree for Cal undergraduates. The Master of Information and Cybersecurity (MICS) is an online degree preparing cybersecurity leaders for complex cybersecurity challenges. Our Ph.D. in Information Science is a research program for next-generation scholars of the information age. Courses Courses Information Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule Fall 2024 Course Schedule Data Science Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule Cybersecurity Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule The School of Information's courses bridge the disciplines of information and computer science, design, social sciences, management, law, and policy. We welcome interest in our graduate-level Information classes from current UC Berkeley graduate and undergraduate students and community members. More information about signing up for classes. People People Faculty Ladder & Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Emeriti Students MIMS Students MIDS Students 5th Year MIDS Students MICS Students Ph.D. Students Staff Student Staff Incoming Students Incoming MIMS students Incoming MIDS students Incoming 5th Year MIDS students Incoming MICS students Incoming Ph.D. students Visitors Alumni Research Research Publications Centers & Labs Research Areas Computer-mediated Communication Data Science Design Entrepreneurship Human-computer Interaction (HCI) Information Economics Information Organization Information Policy Information Retrieval & Search Information Visualization Law Privacy Security Social & Cultural Studies Technology for Developing Regions User Experience Research Research by faculty members and doctoral students keeps the I School on the vanguard of contemporary information needs and solutions. The I School is also home to several active centers and labs, including the Center for Long-Term Cybersecurity (CLTC) , the Center for Technology, Society & Policy , and the BioSENSE Lab . Careers Careers For Employers Why Hire I School? Events Request a Resume Book Leadership Development Program Mailing List For Nonprofit and Government Employers For Students & Alumni Events Resources Leadership Development Program Advising Jobscan & Applicant Tracking Systems Resume & LinkedIn Review Resume Book I School graduate students and alumni have expertise in data science, user experience design & research, product management, engineering, information policy, cybersecurity, and more — learn more about hiring I School students and alumni . News News Press Coverage Alumni News I School Voices Speakers Celebrate Moments of Persistence, Resilience, and Camaraderie at 2024 Commencement On May 18, 2024, the School of Information welcomed 423 of 670 total graduating students from the Master of... Commencement Speaker and Net Neutrality Champion Gigi Sohn Speaks on the Importance of Tech Advocacy Gigi Sohn gave the keynote speech at the UC Berkeley School of Information May 2024 Commencement. Awards Honor May 2024 Graduates The School of Information’s May 2024 Commencement presented an opportunity to honor faculty and student achievements... The I School Graduate Scholars Program in 2024 The initiative is now known at the I School as the I School Graduate Scholars (ISGS) program, which... Events Events Distinguished Lecture Series I School Lectures Information Access Seminars CLTC Events For the I School Community Alumni Events Women in MIDS Events School of Information May 2024 Commencement May 18, 2024, 2:00 pm Parler Games: Folklore, Social Media, and Insurrection Apr 24, 2024, 12:30 pm to 1:45 pm Misinformation In and About Science Feb 21, 2024, 12:10 pm to 1:30 pm Insight and Oversights: Shaping the Future of Visual Analytics with AI Jan 31, 2024, 12:10 pm to 1:30 pm About ► About the I School Academic Mission Diversity & Inclusion ► Explore  Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Resources DEIBJ Leadership History Featured Profiles ► Explore Featured Profiles Featured Faculty Featured Alumni South Hall Work at the I School Subscribe to Email Announcements Logos & Style Guide Directions & Parking Contact Us Programs ► Explore Programs MIMS Program ► Explore MIMS Program Admissions Career Outcomes Degree Requirements Paths Through the MIMS Degree Final Project Funding Your Education Admissions Events Visit Us Request Information 5th Year MIDS Program ► Explore 5th Year MIDS Program Career Outcomes Capstone Project MIDS Program ► Explore MIDS Program Admissions Jack Larson Data for Good Fellowship Tuition & Fees Capstone Project Women in MIDS MIDS Curriculum News Request Information MICS Program ► Explore MICS Program Admissions MICS Student News Tuition & Fees Capstone Project Request Information Ph.D. Program ► Explore Ph.D. Program Admissions Career Outcomes Degree Requirements Funding Your Education Dissertations Admissions Events Request Information Graduate Certificates ► Explore Graduate Certificates Applied Data Science Certificate ICTD Certificate Citizen Clinic ► Explore Citizen Clinic Application Courses ► Explore Courses Information Course Catalog ► View Full Information Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule Fall 2024 Course Schedule Data Science Course Catalog ► View Full Data Science Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule Cybersecurity Course Catalog ► View Full Cybersecurity Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule People ► All People Faculty ► All Faculty Ladder & Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Emeriti Students ► All Students MIMS Students MIDS Students 5th Year MIDS Students MICS Students Ph.D. Students Staff Student Staff Incoming Students ► All Incoming Students Incoming MIMS students Incoming MIDS students Incoming 5th Year MIDS students Incoming MICS students Incoming Ph.D. students Visitors Alumni Research ► Explore Research Publications Centers & Labs Research Areas ► Explore Research Areas Computer-mediated Communication Data Science Design Entrepreneurship Human-computer Interaction (HCI) Information Economics Information Organization Information Policy Information Retrieval & Search Information Visualization Law Privacy Security Social & Cultural Studies Technology for Developing Regions User Experience Research Careers ► Explore Careers For Employers ► Explore For Employers Why Hire I School? Events Request a Resume Book For Nonprofit and Government Employers Leadership Development Program Mailing List For Students & Alumni ► Explore For Students & Alumni Events Resources Leadership Development Program Advising Jobscan & Applicant Tracking Systems Resume & LinkedIn Review Resume Book News ► Explore News Press Coverage Alumni News I School Voices Events ► Explore Events Distinguished Lecture Series I School Lectures Information Access Seminars CLTC Events For the I School Community ► Explore For the I School Community Alumni Events Women in MIDS Events Submit UC Berkeley Give Volunteer Contact Us Alumni Intranet Update Profile My Settings Log out 5th Year MIDS Student Handbook Welcome to 5th Year MIDS and the School of Information! The faculty and staff are here to assist you during your time in the program and this handbook will help you navigate your UC Berkeley experience and help you find answers to your questions. The policies and information noted in this handbook are subject to change. Please email the Student Affairs Team if you have questions or concerns about your academic progress or about situations or issues not covered here. Further campus policies relevant to 5th Year MIDS students are in the Graduate Division’s Guide to Graduate Policy and on the website of the UC Berkeley Office of the Registrar . Program staff from datascience⁠@⁠berkeley are happy to provide assistance in navigating campus policy as it pertains to the 5th Year MIDS program. Degree Requirements 5th Year MIDS students are required to complete a minimum of 27 DATASCI semester units and attend one Immersion Program to complete the 5th Year MIDS degree. Those 27 units consist of nine three-unit courses that fall into four categories: foundation courses (16 units), advanced courses (6 units), a summer practicum (1 unit), and the capstone course (4 units). Grades, grade point average (GPA) requirements, and other policies for completing these courses are described below. 5th Year MIDS is a lock-step program . Students are required to enroll in specific DATASCI courses each term (see Curriculum & Required Course Sequencing below), and they are required to complete the program over four consecutive semesters (fall, spring, summer, and fall). Courses contain both live sessions and asynchronous content. Students are required to be online (and on camera and audio) for the scheduled weekly live sessions. Students also watch at least 90 minutes of asynchronous content each week per course. Attending live sessions for the entire semester is a requirement of the program and we’d like to remind students that in-class participation is often part of your final grade. Students are strongly encouraged, but not required, to pursue an internship during the summer (i.e., third) semester in the 5th Year MIDS program. Curriculum and Required Course Sequencing 5th Year MIDS is a four-semester program, and students are required to enroll in the specific DATASCI courses for each semester as listed below in the required course sequence, in order to fulfill their degree requirements. Students are responsible for reviewing all course descriptions and prerequisites as listed in the Data Science section of the Berkeley Academic Guide prior to enrolling in classes. If students have any questions or concerns about meeting prerequisites or about the content of courses, they are encouraged to reach out to program staff in advance of registration. Students with a strong foundation in relevant topics may be eligible to waive DATASCI 200, 203, and/or 205 by taking and passing the relevant waiver exams. Students who waive these course requirements will substitute other advanced DATASCI courses to fulfill the 27 required DATASCI units. 5th Year MIDS Required Course Sequence Students should complete any required preparatory bridge coursework prior to their first semester. Fall Semester: Required Foundation Courses (10 units) DATASCI 200. Introduction to Data Science Programming (3 units) * DATASCI 201A. Research Design and Applications for Data and Analysis for Early Career Data Scientists (4 units) DATASCI 203. Statistics for Data Science (3 units) ** Spring Semester: Required Foundation & Advanced Courses (9 units) DATASCI 205. Fundamentals of Data Engineering (3 units) ** DATASCI 207. Applied Machine Learning (3 units) DATASCI advanced course (3 units) (Students are encouraged to enroll in DATASCI 209, DATASCI 231, or DATASCI 233 based on DATASCI prerequisites.) Summer Semester: Required Practicum Course (1 unit) DATASCI 293. Data Science Practicum (1 unit) Most students choose to pursue an internship (this is not a degree requirement) Second Fall Semester: Advanced & Required Capstone Course (7 units) DATASCI advanced course (3 units) DATASCI 210A. Capstone for Early Career Data Scientists (4 units) 5th Year MIDS Required Course Sequence for Students Who Waive DATASCI 200 Students should complete any required preparatory bridge coursework prior to their first semester. Fall Semester: Required Foundation Courses (10 units) DATASCI 201A. Research Design and Applications for Data and Analysis for Early Career Data Scientists (4 units) DATASCI 203. Statistics for Data Science (3 units) ** DATASCI 205. Fundamentals of Data Engineering (3 units) ** Spring Semester: Required Foundation & Advanced Courses (9 units) DATASCI 207. Applied Machine Learning (3 units) DATASCI advanced course (3 units) DATASCI advanced course (3 units) Summer Semester: Required Practicum Course (1 unit) DATASCI 293. Data Science Practicum (1 unit) Most students choose to pursue an internship (this is not a degree requirement) Second Fall Semester: Advanced & Required Capstone Course (7 units) DATASCI advanced course (3 units) DATASCI 210A. Capstone for Early Career Data Scientists (4 units) 5th Year MIDS students should be aware of the following requirements while in the program: Students are required to be continuously registered for 4 consecutive academic terms (fall, spring, summer, and fall) from the time of admission until the time of graduation, unless granted permission to withdraw and re-enroll by the School of Information. For all four semesters (fall, spring, summer, and fall) all DATASCI classes are 14 weeks long. Students can review the MIDS Academic Calendar for specific semester dates. Students are required to be enrolled in 10 units (3 courses) in their first semester, 9 units (3 courses) in their second semester, 1 unit (1 course) in their third semester, and 7 units (2 courses) in their final semester. Students are required to enroll in the 5th Year MIDS-specific sections of their required Foundation and Capstone DATASCI courses as listed in the 5th Year MIDS Required Course Sequence (see above). Students can enroll in any DATASCI section for Advanced courses. Due to the rigor of the program, students are limited to working 10 hours per week (25% time) during the fall and spring semesters of the program, both on or off campus. Students who wish to work more than 10 hours per week in a fall or spring semester (for example, a 20 hours per week (50% time) on-campus position) will need to obtain approval from the I School’s senior director of student affairs. During the summer semester, students can work up to 40 hours per week (100% time), as they are encouraged, but not required, to pursue a full-time internship during this semester. Foundation Courses All 5th Year MIDS students must complete the following five foundation courses: DATASCI 200. Introduction to Data Science Programming * DATASCI 201A. Research Design and Applications for Data and Analysis for Early Career Data Scientists DATASCI 203. Statistics for Data Science ** DATASCI 205. Fundamentals of Data Engineering ** DATASCI 207. Applied Machine Learning * Students may be eligible to waive DATASCI 200 during the admissions process. Students must take and submit the 200 waiver exam by May 31. ** Students may be eligible to waive DATASCI 203 and/or DATASCI 205 by completing the relevant DATASCI 203 waiver exam and/or DATASCI 205 waiver exam by the listed deadlines. Students who waive DATASCI 203 and/or DATASCI 205 are still required to complete 27 DATASCI units in order to earn your 5th Year MIDS degree. 5th Year MIDS students will complete all five of their foundation courses in the first two semesters of the program (their first fall semester and the spring semester). Students are also expected to complete any preparatory bridge course material required at the time of admission prior to their first fall semester. Students are informed at the time of admission if they are required to complete any bridge course material, but if you have questions, please contact your Student Success Advisor at 5ymids-studentsuccess@datascience.berkeley.edu . Students can also review more in the Course Preparation section below. Practicum Course All 5th Year MIDS students must complete the following practicum course: DATASCI 293. Data Science Practicum Advanced Courses All 5th Year MIDS students must complete a minimum of two advanced courses (for a total of 6 units). Advanced courses consist of all classes in the DATASCI 200-level series which are not otherwise designated as foundation, practicum, or capstone courses. 5th Year MIDS students will complete all of their advanced courses in the second and fourth semesters (the spring semester and the second fall semester). Students who are eligible to waive DATASCI 200 will take an additional advanced course in the spring semester. For a list of current advanced courses and prerequisites, students should consult the Data Science subject heading in the Berkeley Academic Guide . Capstone Course All 5th Year MIDS students must complete the DATASCI 210A Capstone course during their final term of enrollment in the program (i.e., in their second fall semester): DATASCI 210A. Capstone for Early Career Data Scientists All foundation courses must be completed prior to Capstone, and all other degree requirements, including Immersion, must be completed prior to or concurrently with the capstone course. Course Waiver Exams DATASCI 200 Waiver Exam All 5th Year MIDS students are required to complete DATASCI 200. Introduction to Data Science Programming in their first term as part of their 5th Year MIDS degree requirements. Students who believe they have sufficient knowledge to waive this course may elect to take the 200 waiver exam during the admissions process. The deadline to take and submit the 200 waiver exam is May 31. Students who pass the waiver exam will waive the DATASCI 200 course requirement and be exempted from taking the course. 5th Year MIDS students are still required to complete a minimum of 27 DATASCI units as part of their 5th Year MIDS degree requirements and are still required to take 10 units (3 courses) in their first term; specifically, they are required to take DATASCI 201A, DATASCI 203, and DATASCI 205. DATASCI 203 Waiver Exam Students who believe they have already achieved the desired competency in statistics for data science may take the DATASCI 203 waiver exam prior to enrolling in the course. 5th Year MIDS students can elect to take the exam before their first semester in the program. Students who pass the waiver exam will successfully waive DATASCI 203 and be exempted from taking the course, but must still complete a minimum of 27 DATASCI units as part of their 5th Year MIDS degree requirements. In order to complete 27 units, students who have been exempted from DATASCI 203 will need to take at least 9 units of advanced courses. DATASCI 205 Waiver Exam Students who believe they have already achieved the desired competency in data engineering may take the DATASCI 205 waiver exam prior to enrolling in the course. Students who pass the waiver exam will successfully waive DATASCI 205 and be exempted from taking the course, but must still complete a minimum of 27 DATASCI units as part of their 5th Year MIDS degree requirements. In order to complete 27 units, students who have been exempted from DATASCI 205 will need to take at least 9 units of advanced courses Course Preparation The school offers two preparatory, non-credit, “bridge” courses to supplement students’ technical preparation in the early stages of the 5th Year MIDS curriculum: MIDS 1A. Fundamentals of Linear Algebra MIDS 1B. Fundamentals of Data Structures and Algorithms MIDS 1A and MIDS 1B are self-paced courses available to all 5th Year MIDS and MIDS students through Berkeley’s bCourses platform. Some students may be required to complete one or both of these courses before taking DATASCI 205. Fundamentals of Data Engineering and/or DATASCI 207. Applied Machine Learning ; other students may elect to take the bridge courses to strengthen their technical preparation. Individual bridge course requirements and recommendations are communicated to students during the admissions process. If students believe they have already achieved competence in these areas and should not be required to complete bridge course(s), they may provide evidence of achievement in the relevant subject, such as a coding sample or a syllabus of a previously-taken course during the admissions process. Both of the asynchronous bridge courses are complimentary for enrolled 5th Year MIDS and MIDS students and do not carry additional fees beyond the program deposit and semester tuition and fees for the regular DATASCI 200-series courses described above. For any questions or concerns about bridge courses, students should contact their Student Success Advisor at 5ymids-studentsuccess@datascience.berkeley.edu . Grades Minimum Grade Requirements All UC Berkeley graduate students are required to maintain a minimum grade point average (GPA) of a 3.0 (B) in all courses taken as a graduate student. In order for students to be eligible to receive your MIDS degree, you must complete the program with a minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA. All 5th Year MIDS students are required to successfully complete all DATASCI courses with a passing grade of C– or better (and a Satisfactory grade in DATASCI 293). 5th Year MIDS students who do not pass a DATASCI course will need to work with the Student Affairs Team to determine the best path forward in the program. 5th Year MIDS students must take all coursework for a letter grade — only DATASCI 293 may be taken on a Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory basis. Good Academic Standing Students are expected to remain in good academic standing while in the 5th Year MIDS program and at UC Berkeley. Students are normally considered to be in good academic standing if they are making adequate progress toward the completion of degree requirements by: Maintaining a cumulative GPA of at least 3.0; Having no more than 2 unfinished incomplete grade on their transcript; Achieving a minimum passing grade of C– in all required courses; Taking all required DATASCI courses for a letter grade, except for DATASCI 293, which must be taken on an Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory basis; Completing the required DATASCI courses in each semester of the program (see course sequencing above for required courses); Completing DATASCI 210A in their final term; and Completing the degree requirements in a maximum of 4 consecutive terms (fall, spring, summer, and fall). Incomplete Grades Instructors can assign an incomplete grade (“I”) when a student’s work in a course has been of passing quality but is incomplete because of circumstances beyond the student’s control (such as sudden illness near the end of the course, or a family emergency that doesn’t allow for completion of assignments by the end of the semester). Students must remove all Incompletes in required courses in order to receive their degrees. Students who receive an Incomplete grade in a Data Science class will be expected to complete their final deliverables using the online course access and materials from the semester in which they were enrolled in the course; they will not be re-enrolled in the course in another term. The student and instructor are also expected to create a written agreement addressing completion of remaining coursework, specifying which work must be completed and by what date. Students who need to fully retake a course from the beginning should register for the course a second time in the normal manner and are responsible for all associated fees. Additional Course Policies Extra Classes Students may take additional DATASCI advanced courses beyond 27 semester units if desired. Fees will be charged for these courses on a per-unit basis according to the regular fee structure for the program. Students receive enrollment priority for a 10th class consistent with their progress toward degree. After completing or enrolling in 10 classes, any further class enrollment is contingent on space available after all other students have registered for classes needed to meet graduation requirements. No additional courses may be taken after the student has completed the Capstone course and graduated from the 5th Year MIDS program. 5th Year MIDS alumni receive access to course materials and asynchronous content through the MIDS for Life program. Outside and Transfer Units Only UC Berkeley courses with the “DATASCI” department code are allowed for credit toward the 5th Year MIDS degree. No courses from outside departments at UC Berkeley may be taken to fulfill 5th Year MIDS degree requirements. Courses taken before admission to the School of Information will not be accepted as fulfilling degree requirements. Cancelled Class Policy If one class session cannot be held due to an official university holiday or is otherwise cancelled, it is up to the course (live session) instructor to decide how to cover the material from the missed session(s). Options for lead instructors include: holding a makeup session at a time convenient for a majority of students; having extended-length classes before and after the missing week; making the in-class portion of the course not mandatory that week, and asking students to cover that week’s material in self-study, with office hours support. If two or more class sessions cannot be held due to official university holidays or are otherwise cancelled, the course instructor should schedule a make-up session for at least one of the missed classes at a time convenient for the majority of students. Immersion Program While all coursework is delivered online, students are required to attend at least one three- to four-day immersion program in person before the end of their final term in the program. Immersions may include a variety of activities, such as: Learning modules on special topics such as entrepreneurship, privacy, leadership, and domain applications of data science Conference sessions including lectures and panel discussions Career services seminars on various topics Company visits with leaders in data science Networking events to bring 5th Year MIDS and MIDS students together with one another, faculty, on-campus students, recruiters, and industry leaders There is a $500 immersion program fee. Students will also be responsible for the cost of their hotel stay during the immersion, travel to and from the immersion, hotel parking, and other incidentals not covered by the Immersion program. Students are also responsible for meeting visa requirements if applicable and any costs associated with those requirements. Class Registration & Enrollment Policies Registration Students self-register for classes through CalCentral . Registration for each term begins approximately six weeks prior to the start of classes for continuing students, and in late July for new students. For specific dates, see the MIDS Academic Calendar . You will not have any fees assessed to your account until you have enrolled in at least one class for the semester. Enrollment Appointments in CalCentral Students will be able to see their enrollment appointment for the next semester in CalCentral. Please note that their enrollment appointment date may not be updated right away. Students should always review the MIDS Academic Calendar for the most accurate registration dates or contact their Student Success Advisor at 5ymids-studentsuccess@datascience.berkeley.edu as 5th Year MIDS students do not follow the standard UC Berkeley enrollment timeline or add/drop deadlines. Students should regularly review their enrollment status and holds in CalCentral and take action to resolve any registration holds. Registration holds may be placed due to nonpayment of fees, failure to complete mandatory trainings, or for other administrative reasons. Program staff are available to discuss any holds or concerns related to holds with students. Adding & Dropping Classes The add/drop period covers the first two weeks of each term, allowing students to make changes to their schedules. Students wishing to adjust their schedules during the add/drop period may make self-service changes in CalCentral . Students should be aware of the policies listed below and work with the Student Affairs Team for guidance. Students will receive refunds for tuition charges associated with classes dropped during the add/drop period. Students who remain enrolled in at least one class for the term will not receive refunds or billing adjustments for classes dropped after the add/drop deadline. Students not enrolled in at least one class at the end of the add/drop deadline will be automatically cancelled by the University and will need to apply for re-enrollment in order to return in a subsequent term. Late Registration Fee & Being Officially Registered Becoming a fully registered UC Berkeley student consists of two official steps: (1) enrolling in classes and (2) paying your bill. Students may incur a $150 late registration fee if they are not “ officially registered ” by the third week of the semester. To be officially registered UC Berkeley students must meet the following three criteria: Enrolled in at least one class 20% of tuition and fees must be paid OR be enrolled in the Fee Payment Plan (FPP) Have no holds against your registration Students must be officially registered to have access to campus services such as library privileges, University Health Services, etc. Not being officially registered can also impact students' enrollment into classes for the next semester. For example, if a student does not pay their fall tuition bill and they incur a $150 late registration fee for the fall  semester, they will not be able to register for spring classes until they have resolved their outstanding tuition bill and become “officially registered” for the fall semester. Withdrawal, Cancellation, and Re-enrollment Students who have enrolled in classes and/or paid fees and do not plan on taking any courses that term must officially withdraw, and should review the Registrar’s policies on withdrawal, cancellation, and re-enrollment . Students who need to withdraw for one or more terms should reach out to Student Success for the appropriate advising and policy guidelines. All cancellations or withdrawals must be approved by the School of Information Senior Director of Student Affairs. Withdrawals & Cancellations Students may withdraw or cancel their registration by submitting a Withdrawal Request Form in CalCentral and then emailing I School Student Affairs to confirm their intent to withdraw and their understanding of the refund schedule . All current and future classes in which the student is enrolled will be dropped from their schedule after the withdrawal is approved by I School Student Affairs. The student will no longer be eligible to attend classes or register for future semesters until officially re-enrolled. Students in their first semester in the MIDS program should contact their Student Success advisor to discuss available options before withdrawing. Before the First Day of Instruction The student will receive a refund of all fees paid, minus any non-refundable fees .* It will be processed as a cancellation. There will be no notation of the cancellation on the student’s transcript. On or After the First Day of Instruction The student may receive a partial refund of tuition and fees, depending on the date of the withdrawal. See the full refund schedule. It will be processed as a withdrawal. The student’s transcript will not reflect any course work for that term, but will indicate a withdrawal for that semester. Withdrawal and cancellation may impact eligibility for Federal Financial Aid. For financial aid advising, please contact the Financial Aid and Scholarships office . * State-specific refund policies may apply in Maryland and Oregon. Students located in one of these states should contact the Student Affairs team for advising and billing assistance. Medical Withdrawals For students who need to withdraw for medical reasons, the process of submitting a withdrawal request in CalCentral remains the same. However, there is an additional process for reviewing medical withdrawals managed by the UC Berkeley University Health Services (UHS) . Students with approved medical withdrawals may receive an adjustment to their withdrawal refund. Students with an approved medical withdrawal are not eligible to apply for re-enrollment until they have submitted additional documentation to UHS verifying their readiness to resume classes. Students should be aware and plan for the additional time needed for  review of the clearance forms by UHS, in addition to the standard I School re-enrollment timeline. Re-enrollment Students who have withdrawn or cancelled their registration must apply for re-enrollment, subject to review and approval, before resuming their coursework. Submit the I School Re-enrollment Application to request re-enrollment. 5th Year MIDS students will need to work the Student Affairs team directly to determine their next steps if they withdraw from a semester and need to re-enroll. Financials (Tuition, Billing, & Funding) Tuition & Fees 5th Year MIDS students are assessed the following fees every semester they are enrolled in the program: MIDS program fees (which are charged per enrolled unit of coursework) UC Berkeley Campus Fee (charged per enrolled semester) Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) Fee * (charged per enrolled semester, including the summer term) Students are also assessed the Document Management Fee, which is a one-time fee charged in the first term of enrollment. * Students have the option to waive the Student Health Insurance Plan (SHIP) if they have other major medical health insurance that meet the SHIP waiver criteria and don't wish to have dual coverage. For waiver qualifications, instructions, forms, and FAQs, please see Waiving SHIP . For waiving SHIP during the summer term, see Berkeley SHIP information for Special Summer Programs . Fees are subject to change each academic year; new fees typically take effect in the fall term. Tuition and fees are not generated on your bill until after you register for classes. This is true for every semester you are enrolled at UC Berkeley. Students can review all financial information in the “My Finances” tab in CalCentral . This is where you’ll see your tuition and fees bill, make payments, financial aid packages and disbursements, and fellowship information. Complete information for 5th Year MIDS students current tuition, fees, and financial aid for each semester can be found here. If you are unsure about a charge on your bill, please reach out to your Student Success Advisor first. Payment Options and Fee Payment Plan (FPP) Students use CalCentral for billing activities such as viewing account balances, transaction history, and paying bills. Students are expected to pay their tuition and fees in full by the tuition deadline, and are subject to potential late fees. Students who are unable to pay their tuition and fees in full should enroll in the Fee Payment Plan (FPP) , if eligible. FPP has a $60 participation fee (subject to change) for each semester and FPP is only available to students for the fall and spring semesters. It is not an option for summer semesters at this time. Direct Deposit All students are strongly encouraged to sign up for CalCentral Direct Deposit if eligible. If you are due a refund from CalCentral at any point (such as a fellowship, stipend, or financial aid), signing up for EFT will expedite your refund via direct deposit to your personal bank account instead of waiting 6 - 8 weeks for a paper check. Students are also encouraged to keep their home and local address in CalCentral up to date to avoid any payment delay issues. Financial Aid Eligibility Students wishing to use federal financial aid should consult UC Berkeley’s Financial Aid and Scholarships Office . Students should be aware that enrollment status may affect eligibility for federal financial aid. Students must register for a minimum of 6 units per term in order to be eligible. Students must also maintain satisfactory academic progress, as defined by the UC Berkeley Financial Aid and Scholarship Office. Students enrolled in only three units, or taking a leave of absence, will likely not be eligible for federal financial aid in that term and may also be ineligible in the subsequent term. Funding & Fellowship Resources Incoming 5th Year MIDS applicants have the opportunity to apply for a limited number of 5th Year MIDS Need-Based Fellowships during the admissions process. Fellowship offers are generally made to successful applicants at the time of admission notification. Students are encouraged to review additional funding opportunities on the 5th Year MIDS Tuition, Fees, and Funding page . There are more resources on I School fellowships, Veteran Services, and on-campus employment. Please reach out to your Student Success Advisor if you have additional funding questions. If you are receiving any financial aid or fellowships, please note they will disburse no earlier than 10 days before the start of instruction in accordance with the standard campus academic calendar established by the Registrar's Office. Veterans & Active Duty Benefits Veterans may wish to consult the Cal Veteran Services Center regarding veteran students tuition benefits, financial aid, or other support. Student veterans should also work with the Office of the Registrar's Veterans Benefits team to work on initiating benefits at UC Berkeley, certification, and graduate veterans education plans. Academic Student Employment 5th Year MIDS students who wish to pursue UC Berkeley academic student employment opportunities — graduate student researcher (GSR), graduate student instructor (GSI), reader, or tutor positions — must be registered students in good academic standing and meet all applicable requirements. Due to the rigor of the program, students are limited to working 10 hours per week (25% time) for the entire duration of the program both on- or off-campus. Students who wish to work more than this, (for example, a 20 hours per week (50% time) on-campus position) will need to get approval from the I School’s senior director of student affairs. For information on academic student employment, including salary and fee remission, please review the I School’s Working on Campus and the Graduate Division’s GSI, GSR, Reader, and Tutor Guide for further information. Residency California residents and nonresidents pay the same tuition and fees for the 5th Year MIDS program, as it is a fully online program. 5th Year MIDS students are not eligible for student visas, as the program is fully online and does not require residency. International students may need to obtain short-term visas in order to attend the on-campus Immersion program, and students are responsible for making all necessary travel and visa arrangements. Degree Candidacy, Commencement, and Diplomas All 5th Year MIDS students will be automatically advanced to degree candidacy at the start of their final term. For more information about advancement to and lapsing of candidacy please see the Graduate Division’s policies on master’s degrees . UC Berkeley confers degrees in May, August, and December. Students completing their coursework and degree requirements in the fall term will be invited to attend the annual School of Information commencement ceremony in May. Attendance at commencement is optional and does not affect degree conferral. Please consult the MIDS Academic Calendar for exact commencement dates. More information about commencement The Office of the Registrar issues all official transcripts and diplomas. Degrees are posted to transcripts approximately three full months after they are conferred; diplomas are mailed four full months after degrees are conferred. Note that diplomas are mailed to students’ “Diploma” or “Home” addresses on file in CalCentral ; students are responsible for keeping their CalCentral contact information up to date. Certified electronic diplomas (CeDiplomas) are also now available from the Office of the Registrar (starting Spring 2020 and beyond). They are available for download when paper diplomas are mailed out (i.e., four full months after degree conferral), more information on CeDiplomas can be found here . Please consult the registrar’s page on transcripts and diplomas for more information. If students require proof of degree completion before degrees have been posted to transcripts, they can request a certificate of completion from the Graduate Division . Classroom & Graduate School Expectations Classroom Expectations The 5th Year MIDS program provides students with the opportunity to have a robust online learning experience using state-of-the-art online technology. During your time in the program, your online classroom will include self-paced online coursework combined with live, collaborative seminars driven by problem solving and discussions. Each semester your online learning environment will combine both: Live Classes Students form close relationships with their classmates and instructors in small, face-to-face, weekly video seminars capped at 18 students. During class, students discuss the weekly coursework and participate in group problem-solving. Coursework Students complete self-paced coursework that prepares them for the weekly live classes. Course content includes dynamic videos, interactive case studies, self-paced lectures, and collaborative activities that foster teamwork. While your live sessions are delivered online, all students are expected to maintain the same level of professionalism and classroom expectations expected of any UC Berkeley graduate student. We encourage students to review these classroom expectations regarding live sessions in order to help create a safe, distraction-free classroom environment that is conducive to learning. Cloud Credit Policy The I School is excited to be able to provide educational opportunities for students to develop competency in cutting-edge cloud-based computing technologies. Students should understand that by creating individual accounts with third-party cloud providers, they are responsible for expenses personally incurred in the course of completing assignments and projects for classes. In order to help defray costs, the I School aims to provide credits for cloud computing usage through educational partnerships with third parties whenever possible. However, the I School cannot guarantee that third parties will provide these benefits, and is not responsible for covering expenses incurred by individual students using third-party services. Live Session Classroom Expectations We believe in the importance of the social aspects of learning: between students, and between students and instructors. We recognize that knowledge-building is not solely occurring on an individual level, but that it is built by social activity involving people and by members engaged in the activity. Attending live sessions for the entire semester is a requirement of the program and we’d like to remind students that in-class participation is often part of your final grade. All students should review the following guidelines for live class sessions: Students are expected to join live class sessions from a study environment with video on and a headset, without background movement or background noise, and with an internet connection suitable for video streaming , so that you are able to engage freely in class discussions, breakouts, computer-based exercises, and access materials distributed via internet links or otherwise. Keep your microphone on mute when not talking to avoid background noise. Do your best to minimize distractions in the background video, and ensure that your camera is on while you are engaged in discussions. That said, in exceptional circumstances, if you are unable to meet in a space with no background movement, or if your connection is poor, make arrangements with your instructor (beforehand if possible) to explain your situation. Sometimes connections and circumstances make turning off video the best option. If this is a recurring issue in your study environment, you are responsible for finding a different environment that will allow you to fully participate in classes, without distraction to your classmates. Other Tips If needed for audio clarity, take advantage of dial-in audio options. (Ask your Student Success Advisor for instructions.) In the unusual situation that you are unable to join the class meeting through bCourses, try contacting your instructor or classmates through Slack to get the direct Zoom link. Graduate School Expectations The 5th Year MIDS program is a rigorous, multidisciplinary, and challenging graduate program with a curriculum focused on problem solving, preparing you to creatively apply methods of data collection, analysis, and presentation to address and solve problems in areas of human interest, government, and business. Like any graduate school program, your 5th Year MIDS coursework will be challenging and depending on each student’s background, different courses may be more challenging than others and may require more time than others. We encourage you to keep this in mind as you go through the program and in particular, remember these three concepts (listed below) as you complete your MIDS degree. Overall Advice for Graduate Students Take Initiative. Invest time in cultivating relationships with your instructors and fellow classmates. Take Part In. Learning is hard. Struggle is a feature, not a bug. This is a rigorous graduate program, expect to put in time and engage. Take Risks. Being correct is less important than your ability to reason and think through alternative interpretations. UC Berkeley Code of Conduct Student Code of Conduct We expect you to maintain high standards of integrity in your academic work and your conduct while you are a Berkeley student. At the School of Information, it is our goal to prepare you to be a skilled, innovative, and ethical data science professional. Part of that preparation is found in the standards of conduct we expect of all students. Please review the campus-wide standard for student conduct. In particular, please note: All work you turn in to an instructor must be undertaken by you and you alone. Joint work is permitted only when the conditions for that joint work have been clearly established between the students and the instructor. All work will be the product of new research undertaken by students for the purpose of the designated course. Exceptions are allowed only with a prior agreement between student and instructor. In cases of blatant academic dishonesty (see below), a faculty member will work with the I School Student Affairs Office and the Center of Student Conduct and Community Standards to assign appropriate disciplinary action. That action can include receiving a failing grade on the assignment, test, or entire class grade; or, if warranted, it could result in dismissal from UC Berkeley. Blatant academic dishonesty includes but is not limited to: Plagiarizing by including, without proper citation, words composed by someone else Arranging for another student to take an exam, or taking another student’s exam Submitting an exam answer that is virtually verbatim to that of another student, or willfully allowing other students to copy one’s own exam answers Communicating with another student or using a resource (e.g., the Internet) when taking an exam, where the instructor has explicitly stated in writing that such communication or resource usage is impermissible. Please review the UC Berkeley Campus Code of Student Conduct . Communicating with Faculty We encourage students to engage actively and communicate often, not only in your live sessions, but with your faculty, fellow students, and Student Success Advisor throughout your time in the program. Your live session faculty are your best resources not only for learning the latest data science theories and tools, but also for helping you if there are areas in class that are particularly challenging or if you have emergency circumstances that come up during the semester. Communicate with your faculty early and often If you know you’re going to miss class or you have an emergency come up, communicate with your live session instructor right away. This will help avoid potential issues later in the semester and will make sure both you and your instructor are on the same page. Faculty use a variety of ways to communicate with students including Slack, email, bCourses, or office hours, so we encourage students to ask their instructors the best way to connect and communicate with them over the course of the semester. Getting the most out of your courses Prepare for live sessions ahead of time (completing asynchronous videos, readings, and coursework) Engage actively in class Attend office hours regularly Fill out course evaluations (mid-term & final) Everyone has different learning and teaching styles If something isn’t working for you with a particular faculty member, find time to talk with them one-on-one so both of you can better understand the different styles each of you has. Students and faculty in the 5th Year MIDS program come from very diverse backgrounds — what may be a challenge for some isn’t for others. It’s important to keep everyone’s backgrounds (both your fellow students and faculty) in mind when working through your courses together. University and School Policies The I School Pledge On my honor, I will try: To serve people and society, to create technology for important human needs, and to abide by the I School pledge. I am responsible for what I design and code. I will do my best to be inquisitive and not condescending, ever mindful of privacy and security, and to combat technological determinism, to remember that artifacts have politics,to beware the power of defaults, I will use and abide by technical standards, design with the tussle in mind, and be accountable for the things I create in the world. —Robyn Perry (MIMS ’15) Read about the I School Pledge on the Center for Technology, Society & Policy blog. UC Berkeley Principles of Community These principles of community for the University of California, Berkeley, are rooted in our mission of teaching, research and public service. They reflect our passion for critical inquiry, debate, discovery and innovation, and our deep commitment to contributing to a better world. Every member of the UC Berkeley community has a role in sustaining a safe, caring and humane environment in which these values can thrive. We place honesty and integrity in our teaching, learning, research and administration at the highest level. We recognize the intrinsic relationship between diversity and excellence in all our endeavors. We affirm the dignity of all individuals and strive to uphold a just community in which discrimination and hate are not tolerated. We are committed to ensuring freedom of expression and dialogue that elicits the full spectrum of views held by our varied communities. We respect the differences as well as the commonalities that bring us together and call for civility and respect in our personal interactions. We believe that active participation and leadership in addressing the most pressing issues facing our local and global communities are central to our educational mission. We embrace open and equitable access to opportunities for learning and development as our obligation and goal. UC Berkeley’s “Principles of Community” statement was developed collaboratively by students, faculty, staff, and alumni, and issued by the Chancellor. Its intent is to serve as an affirmation of the intrinsic and unique value of each member of the UC Berkeley community and as a guide for our personal and collective behavior, both on campus and as we serve society. UC Berkeley Honor Code The Associated Students of University of California (ASUC) in conjunction with the Graduate Assembly, the Academic Senate, and the Letters and Sciences (L&S) Deans have developed a UC Berkeley Honor Code to support an environment of academic integrity and respect on campus. While the statement of the Honor Code itself is brief, it is an affirmation of our highest ideals as Golden Bears: “As a member of the UC Berkeley community, I act with honesty, integrity, and respect for others.” The purpose of the Honor Code is to enhance awareness of the need for the highest possible levels of integrity and respect on campus, both within and outside the academic context. We hope and believe that the code will catalyze a series of ongoing conversations about our principles and practices. Together, through engagement, we can create a consistent message and ethos in our classrooms, labs, departments, and throughout the academic enterprise to ensure that the core values of academic integrity and honesty are being embraced by both students and faculty. For more information, see Honor Code Frequently Asked Questions . Disabled Students The campus offers many different resources for graduate students with disabilities. The purpose of an academic accommodation is to offer the graduate student an equal opportunity to meet the department's academic standards and requirements. Disabled Students Program : serves the educational needs of enrolled students with disabilities, including authorizing academic accommodations. Disability Access & Compliance : supports equal access to university-sponsored non-course-related programs or activities for students, staff, faculty, and visitors with disabilities. Request services or report an access barrier Sexual Violence & Sexual Harrasment (SVSH) Prevention Education Both the University and the School have made it a priority to ensure that harm and violence have no place at Berkeley. This can include, but is not limited to, hate or bias related incidents, sexual violence, sexual harassment, dating violence, domestic violence, and stalking. Through numerous trainings, we are equipping our campus with the skills to recognize instances of potential harm or violence and offer help safely, be that by de-escalating, intervening in, or reporting any potentially violent or concerning situations. All UC Berkeley Graduate Students are required to complete trainings in order to be able to register for classes including the Online SVSH Prevention Education training. Content Warning: These trainings are about the prevention of sexual violence and sexual harassment. These forms of harm are much too common, and we recognize that many people in our community have experienced them. If you have concerns about completing the requirements due to personal history, please contact a Confidential Advocate through the PATH to Care Center office line: 510-642-1988 or by email: pathtocare@berkeley.edu . For 24/7 urgent support, call the Care Line at 510-643-2005. You must complete the online SVSH prevention training by the deadline listed in your CalCentral required task checklist, or a hold will be placed on your registration for your 2nd semester. Academic Residence Requirement Students are required to satisfy the Graduate Division’s academic residence requirement for a master’s degree, which is defined as payment of registration fees and enrollment in at least 4 units in 200 series courses per semester for at least two semesters. Students in the 5th Year MIDS program will satisfy the academic residence requirement by completing at least two semesters with a minimum of 6 units of enrollment. By completing the program in the required 4 terms, 5th Year MIDS students will automatically fulfill the academic residence requirement. Other Campus Resources For additional resources, please refer to the Resources for 5th Year MIDS Students . Intranet For Students For MIMS Students For MIDS Students For 5th Year MIDS Students 5th Year MIDS Student Handbook Academic Calendar 5th Year MIDS Forms Class Registration Tuition, Fees, and Funding Who to Contact 5th Year MIDS Student Representatives Immersion Program Conference Travel Grant Capstone Project Pages Project Pages Commencement For MICS Students For Ph.D. Students For Faculty & Staff Computing Facilities & Resources Connect With the I School Sidebar Text 5th Year MIDS Head Graduate Advisor (2023–24) Profile profile for morganya Morgan Ames Assistant Professor of Practice
Alumni (MIMS 2006) morganya@ischool.berkeley.edu 305B South Hall 91-morganya Website Calendars for 5th Year MIDS Students 5th Year MIDS Academic Calendar Add MIDS & MICS Academic Calendar to my calendar iCalendar Google Outlook Yahoo 5th Year MIDS Career Events Career services events for 5th Year MIDS students and alumni searching for jobs or internships Add 5th Year MIDS Career Events to my calendar iCalendar Google Outlook Yahoo Add 5th Year MIDS Career Office Hours to my calendar iCalendar Google Outlook Yahoo Last updated: May 24, 2024 Sign up for more information Find us on Facebook Find us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Connect on Linkedin Watch us on YouTube View Flickr Photos Read our Medium Publication Copyright 1995–2024 UC Regents Nondiscrimination | Accessibility | Privacy UC Berkeley Give Volunteer Contact Us Alumni Intranet Update Profile My Settings Log out About Academic Mission Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Resources DEIBJ Leadership History Featured Profiles Featured Faculty Featured Alumni South Hall Work at the I School Subscribe to Email Announcements Logos & Style Guide Directions & Parking Contact Us Programs MIMS Program Admissions Career Outcomes Degree Requirements Paths Through the MIMS Degree Final Project Funding Your Education Admissions Events Visit Us Request Information 5th Year MIDS Program Career Outcomes Capstone Project MIDS Program Admissions Jack Larson Data for Good Fellowship Tuition & Fees Capstone Project Women in MIDS MIDS Curriculum News Request Information MICS Program Admissions MICS Student News Tuition & Fees Capstone Project Request Information Ph.D. Program Admissions Career Outcomes Degree Requirements Funding Your Education Dissertations Admissions Events Request Information Graduate Certificates Applied Data Science Certificate ICTD Certificate Citizen Clinic Application Courses Information Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule Fall 2024 Course Schedule Data Science Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule Cybersecurity Course Catalog Spring 2024 Course Schedule Summer 2024 Course Schedule People Faculty Ladder & Adjunct Faculty Lecturers Emeriti Students MIMS Students MIDS Students 5th Year MIDS Students MICS Students Ph.D. Students Staff Student Staff Incoming Students Incoming MIMS students Incoming MIDS students Incoming 5th Year MIDS students Incoming MICS students Incoming Ph.D. students Visitors Alumni Research Publications Centers & Labs Research Areas Computer-mediated Communication Data Science Design Entrepreneurship Human-computer Interaction (HCI) Information Economics Information Organization Information Policy Information Retrieval & Search Information Visualization Law Privacy Security Social & Cultural Studies Technology for Developing Regions User Experience Research Careers For Employers Why Hire I School? Events Request a Resume Book For Nonprofit and Government Employers Leadership Development Program Mailing List For Students & Alumni Events Resources Leadership Development Program Advising Jobscan & Applicant Tracking Systems Resume & LinkedIn Review Resume Book News Press Coverage Alumni News I School Voices Events Distinguished Lecture Series I School Lectures Information Access Seminars CLTC Events For the I School Community Alumni Events Women in MIDS Events