
Baccalaureate Degree Information - California State University, Long Beach - Modern Campus Catalog™

Skip to Content

|
University Catalog

Toggle Menu

CURRENT CATALOG

SCHEDULE OF CLASSES

STUDENT CENTER

CATALOG ARCHIVES

	California State University, Long Beach

				Jun 15, 2024			

2024-2025 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog
 
Select a Catalog

2024-2025 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog

2023-2024 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2022-2023 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2021-2022 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2020-2021 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2019-2020 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2018-2019 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2017-2018 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2024-2025 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog

Global Search

Catalog Search

Choose Search Location

Select an option

Courses

Programs

Schools and Departments

Other Content

Entire Catalog

Entire Catalog

Search Keyword Field

S
earch

Whole Word/Phrase

					Advanced Search				

Catalog Navigation

Catalog Home

The California State University

Admission to CSULB

Fees and Financial Aid

Baccalaureate Degree Information

Academic Information and Regulations

Academic Services and Campus Life

Graduate Degree Information

Beach EDGE

Colleges and Departments

Courses

General Policies and Regulations

Print (opens a new window)
Help (opens a new window)

2024-2025 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog
 
							  Baccalaureate Degree Information							  

Student Success and Graduation

Frequently Asked Questions

Baccalaureate Degrees

Restrictions on Units That May Be Counted Toward the Minimum Required for the Baccalaureate

General Education

Majors

Minors and Certificates

Additional Baccalaureate Degrees

Enrollment of Seniors in Graduate Courses

Graduation Writing Assessment Requirement (GWAR)

Graduation

Timely Graduation for Undergraduate Students

CSULB Alumni Association

Giving at the Beach

Student Success and Graduation

CSULB’s core academic purpose is to graduate students with highly valued degrees. Graduation rates for CSULB students have increased dramatically in recent years and the length of time it takes students to complete degrees has decreased. The availability of needed courses and support by academic advisors and learning communities greatly improved graduation rates. These improvements were key to CSULB becoming the most applied to campus in the California State University system and being recognized as the number one institution among national universities in promoting social mobility (
U.S. News and World Report
).

Frequently Asked Questions

Successful students know the answers to these frequently asked questions. Please read them carefully. Knowing these answers can help you avoid pitfalls during your first semesters on campus. For further information, contact your major advisor or the University Center for Undergraduate Advising at (562) 985-4837.

What courses do I need to take to graduate? 
Use your Academic Requirements Report (ARR) to determine your degree requirements, including specific course requirements.  The Degree Planner online tool in MyCSULB can help you to plan your path to graduation. Each time you enter the Degree Planner, it determines what degree requirements you have met and what is still remaining. The Planner then provides a recommended plan promoting timely graduation. If you have questions about your recommended plan, contact your major advisor, college advising center, or the University Center for Undergraduate Advising if you are undeclared.

How can I tell what requirements I still need to meet before I graduate? 
Use MyCSULB to check your Academic Requirements Report. Icons next to each requirement reflect the status of that requirement. If you have an Incomplete (I) or Report in Progress (RP) grade, make sure you complete the requirements so that you receive a final grade before the end of your graduation term. The Academic Requirements Report is the official record to which you should always refer. Also, check your To Do list for any outstanding transcripts needed from other institutions. If you have questions, contact your major advisor, college advising center, or the University Center for Undergraduate Advising.

Can my General Education (GE) courses be used for both GE and for my major (“double counted”)?
 For students with catalog rights of Fall 2018 or later, there is no limit to the number of units that can be double-counted towards the major.
 
Students following other GE patterns should review their Academic Requirements Report with their major advisor or see an advisor in the University Center for Undergraduate Advising if they have questions (Student Success Center, Room 140,  562-985-4837).

How many units will transfer from a California Community College to CSULB?
 Only 70 units of transferable coursework will apply to your bachelor’s degree. All additional transferable coursework will receive subject credit only.

Do I have to take any General Education courses? 
If you have received full GE Certification, you are only required to complete an additional (9) nine units of upper-division GE courses (3 units in categories B, C and D for those with catalog rights of 2018 and later). You may also need to fulfill the ‘U.S. History’ and ‘Constitution and American Ideals’ requirements. If you have not been certified as having met the transfer pattern, you must satisfy CSULB’s GE requirements.

What does General Education (GE) Certification mean? 
 There are three GE certification processes. Two may be completed at the California Community College (CCC). They are either (1) the California State University (CSU) Transfer Pattern or (2) the Intersegmental General Education Transfer Curriculum (IGETC). The third certification process may be completed at another CSU. In all cases, GE certification means that you have completed your lower-division GE at a CCC or at another CSU.

Does having an AA degree from a California Community College mean I am GE Certified?
 The minimum requirements for general AA degrees do not include the lower-division GE pattern required by CSULB. The completion of both an AA degree along with the specified CSU GE or IGETC pattern provide the appropriate GE courses for possible GE certification. In addition, the Associate Degrees for Transfer (AA-T, AS-T) do include GE Certification as part of the degree program. After transfer, CSULB also requires an additional 9 units of upper-division GE courses. (The 9 upper division units must consist of 3 units each in categories B, C and D for those with catalog rights of Fall 2018 or later).

What is partial General Education (GE) Certification? 
Partial Certification means that transfer students have completed subject and unit requirements in one or more GE categories, but not all.

Baccalaureate Degrees

CSULB offers 96 undergraduate degrees with 61 degree options (see 
CSULB Colleges and Departments
 for a list of degree programs and admission requirements). Baccalaureate degrees are constructed of three interrelated areas: (1) the breadth component, called the General Education (GE) Program, which is the basis for the baccalaureate degree with courses that offer training in general skills, methodologies, and habits of thought; (2) the depth component, or major, which establishes an understanding of the breadth of a body of knowledge, competence in the fundamental skills and methodologies of the discipline, and understanding and skill at an appropriate depth in one or more facets of the discipline; and (3) the elective component that provides the possibility for personal exploration, enhancement, and development to complement the rest of the degree program (and might include a minor and/or a certificate program).

Requirements for the Baccalaureate Degree

Completion of a minimum of 120 units for the Bachelor of Arts and the Bachelor of Science. Completion of the minimum number of units which could range from 120 to 132 required by the major program for the Bachelor of Fine Arts or Bachelor of Music degrees. See the description of the requirements for each major for the specific number of units required. There are restrictions (below) on how many units in certain categories may be counted toward the minimum unit requirement.

Completion of at least 40 upper-division units (courses numbered 300-499). No course taken at any community college may count toward fulfillment of these 40 units.

Completion of at least 30 units in residence at CSULB of which at least 24 must be upper-division and at least 12 must be in the major. Units earned in Extended Education or Open University cannot be counted toward fulfillment of the residence requirement.

Completion of the General Education program, described below, including at least 9 units in upper-division courses completed at CSULB.

Completion of the specific course and unit requirements for the academic major, as shown in the alphabetic listing for the major department. If the requirements are changed during students’ continuous attendance at CSULB, they have the right to meet either the requirements in effect when they entered the major or the requirements in effect at the time they graduate. All upper-division courses required for a major must be completed within the ten-year period preceding award of the baccalaureate degree. Courses completed prior to this ten-year period can be revalidated by such demonstrations of competence or knowledge of the subject as may be prescribed by the department offering the course. The Degree Planner provides a suggested sequence of courses to enable students to complete all degree requirements in a timely fashion. Since individual circumstances can vary, students should consult their major advisors for assistance and review their Academic Requirements Report.

Satisfactory fulfillment of the Graduation Writing Assessment Requirement (GWAR), which requires a Writing Intensive Course (see: 
GWAR Information and Requirements
.)

The grade point average standards of Section 40402 of Title 5 of the California Code of Regulations requires undergraduate students, at graduation, to have completed the following with a grade point average of at least 2.0:
	
All units applicable toward a degree, including those accepted by transfer from another institution,

All units in the major, and

All units attempted at the campus granting the degree.

Formal approval by the faculty of the University.

Restrictions on Units That May Be Counted Toward the Minimum Required for the Baccalaureate

Activity Courses

Activity courses provide practice in such areas as music, dance, physical education and Student Recreation and Leadership (SRL). Except as required by a student’s major, students may apply to the degree no more than eight units each of activity course credit in music, dance, theatre arts, or kinesiology and no more than four units of activity course credit in SRL, up to a total of no more than 20 units in all areas.

Transfer Courses

No more than 70 units of courses from a Community College may be counted toward the minimum unit requirement for the baccalaureate degree. (For more detail, see the section on Transfer Credit in the 
Academic Information and Regulations
 
 section of this catalog.)

Courses Taken by Non-Matriculated Students in Any Term

No more than 24 units total taken during any term while in non-matriculated status may be used to fulfill any undergraduate degree requirements. All students who have not been formally admitted to CSULB and who take courses here are non-matriculated students. Courses taken by incoming first-time, first year students during the summer prior to their first fall are considered non-matriculated units. Students looking to transfer units to a graduate program should consult with their Graduate Advisor as no more than 30% of the units required for a graduate degree may be from transfer/non-matriculated units.

Open University

Through Open University, students who are NOT matriculated in CSULB may take regular university classes during spring or fall semesters for academic credit on a “space available” basis. Permission of the College is required for courses with pre-requisites. Open University enrollment does NOT constitute admission to CSULB. For more information call the College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPaCE) at (562) 985-5561.

Self Support Courses

There is no limit on CPaCE Self Support course credit, including Winter, May and Summer Session, applicable to the degree if taken while in matriculated status in the degree program.

General Education

The Significance of General Education

Students at CSULB earn highly valued degrees by completing at least two programs: their degree program (major) and CSULB’s General Education (GE) Program. While the major focuses on discipline- specific education and sometimes prepares students for specific professions, the GE Program teaches a broad base of knowledge from a variety of disciplines so that students can lead engaged and meaningful lives exemplifying our CSULB values of intellectual rigor, inclusive excellence, and the public good. In the liberal arts tradition, the GE Program introduces students to new areas and gives them knowledge and skills that may or may not be related to their disciplines, rather than primarily complementing the major directly or catering to students’ preexisting interests. 

The GE Program exposes students at CSULB to general knowledge across various disciplines with the appropriate approaches, methodologies, and pedagogies and equips students to draw connections between those disciplines. Furthermore, in the GE Program students learn transferable skills such as, but not limited to, oral and written communication, quantitative reasoning, critical thinking, and problem- solving. These skills allow them to achieve their initial professional goals, and to be successful in future careers that have not even been dreamed of yet. By conveying this knowledge and these skills, the GE Program gives students the opportunity to become well-informed, well-rounded, intentional, and thoughtful citizens of their diverse local, national, and global communities. 

General Education Breadth requirements are specified pursuant to Title 5, California Code of Regulations, Sections 40402.1, 40404, 40405, 40405.1, 40405.2, 40405.4, and 40508, and Sections 1 and 2 of Chapter III of the Standing Orders of the Board of Trustees of the California State University. CSU General Education Breadth Requirements have been designated to complement the major program and electives completed by each baccalaureate candidate to assure that graduates have made noteworthy progress toward becoming truly educated persons. These requirements are designed to provide the knowledge, skills, experiences, and perspectives that will enable CSU students to expand their capacities to take part in a wide range of human interests and activities; to confront personal, moral, and social problems that are an inevitable part of human life; and to cultivate both the requisite skills and enthusiasm for lifelong learning.

General Education Requirements for students with catalog rights of Fall 2021 or later (48-49 units*)

*NOTE: The California State University System, the University of California System, and the California Community College System will be adopting a new GE pattern, Cal-GETC, in Fall 2025.

The General Education curriculum is organized as three sequential phases. The first is the Foundation, a group of courses designed to provide fundamental learning skills. The second is Explorations, courses distributed across the curriculum that are intended to provide an opportunity to explore the various ways of acquiring and examining knowledge while continuing to develop learning skills. The third phase includes upper-division courses, spread equally between Categories B, C, and D. (*Students majoring in departments within the College of Engineering are required to take 39-42 units of GE).

LD= Lower Division (100 and 200 level courses); UD= Upper Division (300 and 400 level courses) 

All students must complete the distribution pattern described below.

GE Requirements as of Fall 2021 GE

GE Category 

Area A:English Language, Communication, and Critical Thinking

9 units

Oral Communication

A1 (LD)

Written Communication

A2 (LD)

Critical Thinking

A3 (LD)

Area B: Scientific Inquiry and Quantitative Reasoning

12-13 unit

Physical Science

B1 (LD)

Life Science

B2 (LD)

Laboratory Experience

B3 (LD)

Mathematics/Quantitative Reasoning

B4 (LD)

Upper Division in Scientific Inquiry and Quantitative Reasoning

B-UD

Area C: Arts and Humanities

12 units

Arts: Arts, Cinema, Dance, Music, Theater

C1 (LD)

Humanities: Literature, Philosophy, LOTE

C2 (LD)

Explorations in the C1 Arts or C2 Humanities

C3 (LD)

Upper Division in Arts or Humanities

C-UD

Area D: Social Sciences

9 units (6 units LD/3 units UD)

US History (includes CA history)

D1 (LD or UD)

Constitution and American Ideals

D2 (LD or UD)

Social Sciences and Citizenship

D3 (LD)*

Upper Division in Social Sciences

D-UD

Area E: Lifelong Learning and Self-Development

3 units

Lifelong Learning and Self-Development

E (LD)

Area F: Ethnic Studies

3 Units

Ethnic Studies 

F (LD or UD)

Minimum Total

48-49 units

Students under earlier G.E. plans or who need help with the above chart should contact their College Advising Center or the University Center for Undergraduate Advising, visit our 
UCUA website.

* Students should consult with an academic advisor regarding Category D requirements as questions arise. 

General Education Policy

The 
CSULB General Education Policy (PS 21-09) (PDF)
 is hosted on the Academic Senate’s Website.

Majors

Choosing a major is one of the most important, and sometimes most difficult, academic decisions students will make during their college careers. There may be many possible choices of major that would provide preparation for a given career. The 
CSULB College and Departments page
 showcases degree choices available and where to find information in each. Many departments have additional information posted on their web pages, accessible from 
the CSULB home page
. Students are encouraged to interview faculty in possible majors and to seek the help of academic and student services professionals to assist them in making this important decision.

Declaration of a Major

CSULB students must meet precise major specific criteria in order to declare a major. While some first-time, first-year students are admitted directly into some majors, many majors require that students begin as pre-majors and then declare the major if and when they complete the major specific criteria. All students must have a declared major by the time 
they reach 60 earned units (PS 06-04)
. This applies to students who are Undeclared or are currently in a pre-major status.

Except for “Highly Impacted” majors, native CSULB students can declare a major if they meet the major-specific minimum cumulative GPA and required lower division preparation. Students should use the Degree Planner to ensure they are following a timely path to graduation. There are limitations on the ability to add a second major or to add/change degree objectives based on the following policies- 
Academic Progress Rules for Undergraduate Programs
 and 
Timely Graduation for Undergraduate Students
. Students must declare all degree objectives before reaching 90 units.

Steps for Pre-majors to Declare the Major

Students who are in a pre-major must meet major-specific 
criteria
 in order to declare the major; therefore, the student should review the criteria in 
Major Specific Declaration Requirements for CSULB Students
 carefully. Students can check progress towards satisfying the pre-major requirements by reviewing the Academic Requirements Report available in the ‘Academics’ section of their MyCSULB. Students should use the Degree Planner to ensure they are following a timely path to graduation. Be aware that “Highly Impacted” majors are very competitive and have additional requirements. If all major-specific criteria are satisfied, the major advisor will electronically submit the request to Enrollment Services. Please note that CSULB’s Academic Progress Rules for Undergraduate Programs policy may affect a student’s ability to continue in their degree objective. 

Change of Major or Other Objective

Students wishing to change a degree objective must meet the major-specific criteria for the new major as defined in 
Major Specific Declaration Requirements for CSULB Students
. The following CSULB policies may affect the student’s ability to change majors: 
Academic Progress Rules for Undergraduate Programs
 and 
Timely Graduation for Undergraduate Students
. Students should use the Degree Planner to ensure they are following a timely path to graduation.

Before the student satisfies the specified criteria, the student should meet with the department academic advisor to discuss the possibility of changing their major. If the major advisor supports the request, the advisor will electronically submit the request to Enrollment Services. Be aware that additional information may be requested to ensure compliance with the policies mentioned above prior to processing of the request.

The evaluation of credits transferred to the University is based in part upon the academic objective indicated on the application for admission. Therefore, students should be aware that under some circumstances transfer courses accepted for one purpose may not be acceptable for other purposes.

Declaring a Second Major

Students may be allowed to complete the requirements for two baccalaureate programs concurrently in accordance with the Timely Graduation Policy. Students wishing to add a second major must meet the major-specific criteria for the new major as defined in 
Major Specific Declaration Requirements for CSULB Students
. While students are encouraged to pursue their academic interests, all degree objectives (e.g., majors, minors, certificates) must be completed within 120% of the units allowed for the primary degree as stipulated in 
CSULB’s Timely Graduation for Undergraduate Students policy
. Students must declare all degree objectives before reaching 90 units. Also note that 
CSULB’s Academic Progress Rules for Undergraduate Programs policy
 stipulates that if any one of a student’s three GPAs is below 2.5, the student must have the approval of their primary major advisor to add any additional degree objectives. Please note that students whose major GPA is near or below a 2.0 are unlikely to be allowed to pursue additional degree objectives until they have improved their major GPA. Before the student satisfies the specified criteria, the student should meet with the department academic advisor to discuss the possibility of adding the additional major. If the major advisor supports the request, the advisor will electronically submit the request to Enrollment Services. Be aware that additional information may be requested to ensure compliance with the policies mentioned above prior to processing the request. One diploma will be issued reflecting both majors. A course, or courses, may be used to satisfy the individual requirements of both majors, without limit, as long as the required pattern of course work is completed for each major.

Minors and Certificates

A minor is a structured selection of courses by which a student can enrich their academic preparation through concentrated study of a discipline that is different from, but may be related to, the student’s declared major. A minor is a means to augment or complement the major by broadening the student’s academic experience or serving as preparation for a specific career. A minor must be pursued concurrently with a Bachelor’s degree. A minor consists of a minimum of fifteen units, as specified by the department or program, at least six of which must be upper division. The minimum overall GPA in courses toward the minor is 2.0. A minimum of six units of coursework towards the minor must be taken at CSULB. Minors are awarded only as part of a baccalaureate degree. Students may not finish a minor after they have graduated. The minor may be in a single subject or interdisciplinary. Students may not declare or receive a minor in the same subject as the major, and the major and minor may not have the same title. The description of each minor shall have a statement listing all majors, if any, that may not be combined with that particular minor. Students should refer to the requirements of the department and college of their major, to see whether a minor is required for that major. Even if a minor is not required, students may elect to complete one or more minors from those available. Note that the award of a minor will be reflected on the transcript, not on the diploma. Students must declare all degree objectives before reaching 90 units.

Most certificate programs differ from baccalaureate majors and minors in their emphasis on practical and applied uses of knowledge in a specific area of human enterprise. Certificates may only be earned concurrently with or following the award of the baccalaureate degree. Certificate programs require at least 12
 
units of coursework, of which at least 9
 
units must be upper-division. Courses taken to fulfill the requirements for the baccalaureate degree may also be applied to certificate requirements. A maximum of two 500-level courses, taken by eligible students in their senior year, may be applied to a baccalaureate certificate program. Extension and/or transfer credit may comprise no more than one-fourth of the coursework used to meet baccalaureate certificate requirements. A grade point average of at least 2.0 must be maintained in the certificate program’s coursework. Note that the award of a certificate will be reflected on the transcript, not on the diploma; a separate certificate document will be issued. Students must declare all degree objectives before reaching 90 units.

While students are encouraged to pursue their academic interests, all degree objectives (e.g., majors, minors, certificates) must be completed within 120% of the units allowed for the primary degree as stipulated in CSULB’s Timely Graduation for Undergraduate Students policy. Also note that CSULB’s Academic Progress Rules for Undergraduate Programs policy stipulates that if any one of a student’s three GPAs is below 2.5, the student must have the approval of their primary major advisor to add any additional degree objectives. Please note that students whose major GPA is near or below a 2.0 are unlikely to be allowed to pursue additional degree objectives until they have improved their major GPA. If the program advisor for the minor or certificate supports the request for an additional degree objective, the advisor will electronically submit the request to Enrollment Services. Be aware that additional information may be requested to ensure compliance with the policies mentioned above prior to the processing of the request.

Additional Baccalaureate Degrees

CSULB accepts applicants for 
a second B.A./B.S. for some areas
. Students applying for and accepted to a second baccalaureate degree program who have received their first baccalaureate degree or equivalent from an institution outside of the U.S. will be required to complete any deficiencies in the General Education pattern. In addition, they will be evaluated for admission on the same competitive basis as undergraduates.

A graduated student who wishes to pursue an additional baccalaureate degree may be allowed to do so by completing a minimum of 30 units after the award of the most recent degree, of which 24 units must be from CSULB while in matriculated status in the degree program or earned as a senior and approved for post-baccalaureate credit. Any courses to be applied to the additional degree must be specified and taken in addition to those needed to satisfy the requirements of the first degree. In addition, the degree must contain a minimum of 24 upper-division units and a minimum of 12 units must be in the major. (See the 
Catalog 
section on 
Admission to CSULB
 
.)

Enrollment of Seniors in Graduate Courses

Undergraduates may enroll in graduate courses only under the conditions specified below:

Graduate Credit Earned as a Senior

Graduate credit usually may not be earned in advance of the baccalaureate degree. Seniors may, however, be granted approval to earn a maximum of 12 units of course work in the 400 and 500 levels designated as acceptable for graduate credit and taken at this university towards their prospective graduate programs (based upon faculty recommendation, academic performance [in general a grade point average of 3.0 (B) in the major], and promise of academic achievement in post‑graduate study). Approval is subject to the following conditions: (a) the course work must be in addition to that required for the undergraduate major; and (b) the undergraduate student must have an approval from the departmental graduate advisor and the department chair prior to enrollment 
(PS-11-02)
. In addition, any graduate units must be specifically reserved for inclusion in a future graduate degree.

In those areas in which graduate credit is for a credential only, approval must be obtained from the appropriate department in the College of Education. Requests submitted after completion of course(s) will not be approved.

Senior Enrollment in Graduate Courses for Undergraduate Credit

Under special conditions, seniors who have a 3.0 grade point average or better in their major and who have adequate undergraduate preparation in the subject may enroll in up to 12 units in the 500-599 series to fulfill the elective requirements of the bachelor’s degree. The course work may not be applied to the units of 500-600 level course work required by the department or college for the master’s degree. The student must have approval from the instructor and department chair before registration in the class(es) is permitted (PS 92-09).

Graduation Writing Assessment Requirement (GWAR)

In order to obtain a degree or certificate from CSULB, all students must demonstrate upper-division competence in academic writing in English. All students must attempt to fulfill the GWAR before filing a request to graduate. Please see 
the GWAR website
 for details.

Graduation

Dates and Requests to Graduate

The University awards degrees at the end of each of four terms in a year: January (work completed at the end of Winter session); May or June (end of the Spring semester); August (end of Summer Session); and December (end of the Fall semester.)

Seniors and graduate students who expect to receive degrees or certificates at the end of any semester, winter or summer session must apply to graduate well in advance. Spring or Summer candidates should apply for graduation online by the preceding October 15, and Fall or Winter candidates should apply online by the preceding March 1. While candidates may continue to apply online after these deadlines, an additional fee applies and names are not guaranteed to appear in the Commencement Program. The names of candidates who file within these deadlines will appear in the Commencement Program published each Spring. Publication of names in the program does not constitute graduation from the university. Credential students should review 
the Credential Center’s Website
 for credential-specific details. Requests to graduate submitted later than the deadline will be processed after those submitted on time. The degree will be granted once all requirements have been completed, but the student’s name will not be printed in the Commencement Program.

Completion of Records and Requirements

Prior to receiving a degree, students are responsible for the following:

Ensuring that the university has received official transcripts of all work completed at other institutions. For classes taken outside CSULB during the final semester or session, the transcripts must be submitted by the announced date, approximately one month after the official publicized graduation date. If transcripts are not received by the announced date, the graduation request may be cancelled.

Completing all requirements for the degree, including the minimum number of units. Units will not be counted toward the minimum if they are above the acceptable total in certain categories, as listed in the degree requirements, or if they are a repetition of a course for which credit has already been counted. Any substitutions or waivers of course requirements must be submitted by the advisor, prior to the last day of the final semester or session.

Completing all “In Progress” and “Incomplete” courses. No additional work may be completed after the degree is awarded. No additional plans (minors, majors, or certificates) can be added after a degree is conferred. No grade can be changed after the degree is awarded, except for a change resulting from a grade appeal. Any Incomplete remaining on the record as of the graduation date will be counted as if it were an “F,” with units attempted but no grade points earned, unless the instructor has specified on the Incomplete contract
 
that some other grade be recorded.

Degree Clearing

Final review of records begins three weeks after final exams in the student’s last term. If all degree requirements are complete, the degree and any honors are added to the transcript. The transcript is the official verification of the degree.

It is the student’s responsibility to submit records of all changes in the record no later than the last day of the final semester or session. Such materials include transcripts from other institutions and amendments, substitutions, waivers, and grade changes.

Honors for Undergraduate Students

Graduation with Honors (CSULB Policy Statement)

Latin Honors

		The following grade-point average (GPA) criteria are used to identify undergraduate students eligible for the honors specified:

Summa Cum Laude: GPA equal to or greater than 3.900,

Magna Cum Laude: GPA equal to or greater than 3.750 but less than 3.900, and

Cum Laude: GPA equal to or greater than 3.500 but less than 3.750.

Undergraduate students may be considered eligible for honors at graduation provided that a minimum of 45 units are earned at California State University, Long Beach. For the first baccalaureate degree, the GPA shall be determined from units earned at CSULB plus transferred units. For the second baccalaureate degree, the GPA shall be determined only by courses taken after the first degree was awarded that are also required by the second major. Latin Honors will be noted on the diploma and transcript.

Master’s, credential, post-baccalaureate certificate, and doctoral students are not eligible for Latin honors.

University Honors Program

	An undergraduate student must complete 24 credits in Honors (General Honors Plan 1-for incoming first-year students) or 15 credits in Honors (General Honors Plan II-for transfer students and continuing CSULB students) and maintain an overall GPA of 3.00 or better in Honors and in all university courses attempted to graduate from the University Honors Program. Students who successfully complete the academic requirements of the University Honors Program will be awarded a University Honors Program certificate and medallion. They will also receive the designation “General Honors - University Honors Program” on their transcript. (note: additional honors through CSULB colleges are available)

Honors in the Major

	Departments may develop an honors curriculum in the major. The honors curriculum must contain a minimum of nine additional units. Honors in the Major are noted on the transcript.

Honor Lists

	Undergraduate students exhibiting outstanding scholastic achievement are honored by being included on the President’s List or Dean’s List. Such recognition will be noted on the transcript each term.
	
President’s List

		Students will be placed on the President’s List to honor them for academic achievement each semester in which they complete 12 or more graded course units with a semester GPA equal to or greater than 3.750. Students earning fewer than 12 graded course units per semester will be placed on the President’s List in the spring semester of the academic year in which they accumulate 12 or more graded course units with an academic year GPA equal to or greater than 3.750.

Dean’s List

		Students will be placed on the Dean’s List to honor them for academic achievement each semester in which they complete 12 or more graded course units with a semester GPA equal to or greater than 3.500 but less than 3.750. Students earning fewer than 12 graded course units per semester will be placed on the Dean’s List in the spring semester of the academic year in which they accumulate 12 or more graded course units with an academic year GPA equal to or greater than 3.500 but less than 3.750.

Departmental Honors

		With the approval of the dean of the college, departments may elect to award departmental honors to their graduates based on GPA and/or other criteria determined by the department. The number of honors awarded by a department shall be limited to three students or five percent of graduates, whichever is larger. Departmental honors will not be noted on the transcript.

Timely Graduation for Undergraduate Students

In order to provide access to the university’s undergraduate major and minor programs for as many qualified students as possible, this policy is established to ensure timely graduation of undergraduate students.

Students may earn up to 120% of the number of units required for the degree in their declared primary major. Any additional degree objectives (e.g., majors, minors, certificates) must be able to be completed within the additional units allowed and must be declared prior to earning 90 units. For the purpose of defining unit limits in this policy:

Units transferred from other institutions in excess of 60 units will be excluded from the unit limits.

Units earned by Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and other external exams, military credit, pre-baccalaureate unit credit, as well as unit credit by examination are excluded.
	
CSULB Policy 23-12 - Credit for Prior Learning
 has additional information. 

After earning 90 units, students may change degree objectives only if they submit a plan demonstrating that all degree objectives can be completed within the 120% unit limit applicable to the higher unit major.

Students who have not already filed to graduate by the time they have earned 100% of the units required for the degree in their declared primary major must file to graduate and submit a plan to graduate within the unit limits defined in this policy.

Students requesting an exception to the limits in this policy should file a Timely Graduation appeal. The appeal must include a rationale and a Degree Planner Plan to graduate.

If an exception is not approved, students whose plan to graduate exceeds 120% of the number of units required for the degree in their declared primary major may be subject to restrictions on enrollment. If the student has earned any major regardless of whether they have declared that major, a degree will be conferred in that major. If the student has not earned a major, enrollment will be restricted to courses required to graduate in the major for which graduation is most likely to occur in a reasonable time. 

CSULB Alumni Association

The CSULB Alumni Association is the link between the University and its more than 325,000 graduates to garner their support for The Beach.

It sponsors various alumni programs, communication vehicles to inform alumni about their alma mater, and supports the university with departmental grants and student scholarships.

The Association is governed by a volunteer board of directors who serve as alumni ambassadors for the university, promote its mission, and reconnect alumni with the institution. Other volunteers assist with its other programs.

Membership dues for CSULB graduates and credential holders is a one-time $49 fee. For non-graduates, including alumni who took CSULB classes but did not graduate, the fees is $49 for the first year and $25 annually thereafter.

The main benefit for members is to keep informed about their alma mater through its magazine “Beach Connection” and e-communiques. In addition, members have access at all CSU libraries (check with campus library for alumni benefits), discounts at the Carpenter Performing Arts Center events and home 49er athletic games, discount on rental of the Earl Burns Miller Japanese Garden, and access to various group insurance policies (medical, home, auto, life, etc.). Alumni also can access the CSULB Career Development Center at no cost for one year after graduation and an annual fee thereafter.

For more information about the CSULB Alumni Association, check the website at our 
CSULB Alumni website
 or call 562.985.5252.

Giving at the Beach

Beach Fund

Though CSULB is a publicly supported institution, generous contributions to the Beach Fund are critical to keeping the university thriving. Supporting the Beach Fund allows the President and Deans to address the ongoing, immediate needs of the university. Contributions to all areas enhance state support and student fees to provide all students with access to a quality education. Such areas most impacted by your support are:

Student Success and Access

Teaching and Discovery

Creativity and Innovation

Science and Technology

Global and Community Engagement

None of these successes can be accomplished with state funding alone. Gifts to the Beach Fund make it possible for our gifted students to earn the lifelong benefits of a quality CSULB education and protect the value of degrees already earned. Please feel free to contact the Office of Annual and Special Giving by phone at (562) 985-5294 or via email at 
BeachFund@csulb.edu
.

MyBeach Senior Class Experience

The myBeach program, housed within the Alumni Association, provides graduating CSULB seniors with an engaging experience during their last year at the Beach. This is created through event programming, the promotion of Beach Pride, and starting a tradition of giving back to CSULB through the Alumni Association.

The Senior Giving Campaign, housed in the Beach Fund, allows current CSULB student fundraisers to reach out to our soon-to-be-grads to introduce them to a tradition of giving back, starting with the Senior Class Campaign.

Print (opens a new window)
Help (opens a new window)

T

                                    SERVICES
                                
Emergency Information

Crisis Assistance

CARES Team

Accessibility Statement

Student Health Center

                                        Colleges
                                    
The Arts

Education

Business Administration

Professional and International Education

Engineering

Liberal Arts

Health & Human Services

Natural Sciences & Mathematics

Engineering

Liberal Arts

Health & Human Services

Natural Sciences & Mathematics

                                        Additional Resources
                                    
About CSULB

University
 Careers

University Police

Campus Directory

Strategic Communications

Download Document Reader

Strategic Communications

C S U L B
 Contact Us

CSU

Site Index

Feedback

SERVICES

Emergency Information

Crisis Assistance

CARES Team

Accessibility Statement

Student Health Center

Colleges

The Arts

Education

Business Administration

Professional and International Education

Engineering

Liberal Arts

Health & Human Services

Natural Sciences & Mathematics

Additional Resources

About CSULB

University
 Careers

University Police

Campus Directory

Strategic Communications

Download Document Reader

C S U L B
 Contact Us

California State University 
Long Beach

                                            1250 Bellflower Boulevard
                                        
Long Beach, California
 
90840

                                        562.985.4111
                                    
All 
catalogs
 © 2024 California State University, Long Beach.
 
Powered by 
Modern Campus Catalog™
.

