
Academic Services and Campus Life - California State University, Long Beach - Modern Campus Catalog™

Skip to Content

|
University Catalog

Toggle Menu

CURRENT CATALOG

SCHEDULE OF CLASSES

STUDENT CENTER

CATALOG ARCHIVES

	California State University, Long Beach

				Jun 15, 2024			

2024-2025 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog
 
Select a Catalog

2024-2025 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog

2023-2024 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2022-2023 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2021-2022 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2020-2021 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2019-2020 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2018-2019 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2017-2018 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2024-2025 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog

Global Search

Catalog Search

Choose Search Location

Select an option

Courses

Programs

Schools and Departments

Other Content

Entire Catalog

Entire Catalog

Search Keyword Field

S
earch

Whole Word/Phrase

					Advanced Search				

Catalog Navigation

Catalog Home

The California State University

Admission to CSULB

Fees and Financial Aid

Baccalaureate Degree Information

Academic Information and Regulations

Academic Services and Campus Life

Graduate Degree Information

Beach EDGE

Colleges and Departments

Courses

General Policies and Regulations

Print (opens a new window)
Help (opens a new window)

2024-2025 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog
 
							  Academic Services and Campus Life							  

N
ew Student and Family Programs 

Student Academic Support Services

Campus Services

University Ombuds

Graduate Center (GC)

Thesis and Dissertation Office

New Student and Family Programs

Student Orientation, Advising and Registration (SOAR)

SOAR is a comprehensive orientation and advising process to help newly admitted undergraduate students during their academic and social transition to the University.  SOAR is committed to and celebrates equity, diversity, and inclusivity. This commitment is reflected in the wide range of programming and opportunities designed to meet the needs and interests of our unique student body and campus community. 

All first-semester students will complete two components of this University-required program: an Advising & Registration Process and an Orientation Process. These required processes for newly admitted students take place between June and August for fall semester admits, while students admitted for the spring semester attend a workshop in January. For information about SOAR, please call (562) 985-5515, email soar@csulb.edu, or visit 
CSULB SOAR website
.       

Orientation Component Overview

The Orientation Process consists of two components that are coordinated by SOAR: 

First, students will complete the Pre-SOAR Canvas course. This online course provides an overview of CSU-mandated policies and information, introduction to responsibilities of our campus community members, and presents essential resources and services to help students be successful in and outside the classroom. 

Next, students will participate in the SOAR Orientation Workshop. This workshop provides an orientation to campus life, an overview of Long Beach State history and traditions, opportunities to learn from experienced and successful students, as well as a chance to connect with peers. 

Advising & Registration Process Overview 

The Advising & Registration Process is organized and facilitated by the advising center or department faculty advisor, which is assigned based on students’ declared major or pre-major. Visit College Advising Center Websites and Major Lists for more details. 

Ongoing Orientation and Leadership Development

SOAR hosts a range of academic, professional development, and social programs to foster personal and professional growth. Visit 
SOAR Connections on BeachSync
 for events like 
Cultural Welcomes
, 
game & movie nights, 
Student Services Festival, Explore the Majors & Minors Fair, Lifeguard Stations,
 workshops, guest speakers, and more!  Additionally, the department provides employment opportunities as 
SOAR Leaders
 where students can hone professional skills, build community, and establish their legacy as part of 
The Beach Family
.

Parent and Family Programs (PFP)

Parent & Family Programs offers a range of programs and events designed to help parents become an ally to their student as they find academic, social and personal success at The Beach.  These programs include Parent & Family Orientation, the Beach Family Portal, Virtual Fireside Chats and events hosted throughout the year.  We aim to provide resources, services, events and programs that keep families connected and informed about the university, and the CSULB college experience. 

Advising Centers and Departments on Campus

CSULB is committed to student success. All academic advising centers and departments are responsible for providing academic direction for new and continuing students. All college specific academic advising units and academic departments provide information and advice about general education, major requirements, and other important academic related policies and procedures. Students are strongly advised to meet with an academic advisor frequently to enhance their overall academic experience and monitor their progress towards attaining their degree goals and objectives.

College of the Arts Academic Advising

The mission of the College of the Arts’ undergraduate academic advisement is to facilitate student’s degree completion by guiding students through an academic journey that is intellectually, personally, and creatively engaging. COTA advisors aspire to assist students to: identify and articulate their interest, values, and educational goals; understand and articulate degree requirements; access, navigate
,
 and utilize the information and tools located in their Student Center to determine degree progress; and locate and utilize online and on-campus university resources. 

COTA academic advising is distinguished from advising in other colleges on campus by its placement of dedicated professional staff advisors in each COTA department. Visit the department website for more information about our academic offerings and academic advising support. 

School of Art Advising Center

Department of Dance Advising

Department of Design Advising

Department of Film & Electronic Arts Advising

Bob Cole Conservatory of Music Advising

Department of Theatre Arts Advising

College of Liberal Arts Advising Center - ATLAS Network

The ATLAS (Advising Teaching Liberal Arts Students) Network is a collaboration of professional advisors and faculty committed to the academic success of Liberal Arts majors at CSULB. As the Advising Center for the College of Liberal Arts, our trained advisors are qualified to assist students with their overall degree and general education requirements, provide exploration of academic options, review academic requirements, and troubleshoot student issues and concerns. 

For services and appointment information, visit the 
ATLAS Network website
, or call (562) 985-7804. ATLAS is located in LA1-LO0102. For more information about the Career Readiness and Internship Program, visit 
CLA Internship website
 or contact 
cla-internships@csulb.edu
.

University Center for Undergraduate Advising (UCUA)   

The University Center for Undergraduate Advising (UCUA) at California State University Long Beach plays a crucial role in supporting various student populations. Key services provided by the Center include:   

Undeclared Undergraduate Students and Major Exploration: 

UCUA assists undergraduate students who are exploring major options or need assistance with identifying a new major. 

Provides information about University policies related to major declaration. 

Academic Standing Assistance: 

Supports undergraduate students who need guidance in creating a strategy to return to good academic standing after being placed on academic warning. 

Offers information about reinstatement to the University after academic disqualification. 

Special Programs Participants: 

Serves program participants in GenExcel and the Long Beach College Promise. 

Provides information about the University’s Beach Pledge program. 

Offers mentorship and information for newly admitted transfer students to support their transition to the University via Beach Transfer Transition Center (BTTC) programming. 

Services Offered: 

Guidance: Helps students explore and formulate academic plans to achieve timely graduation. 

Recommendations: Offers advice on personal growth and academic development. 

Interpretation: Clarifies academic requirements and University policies (e.g., major declaration, course repetition, withdrawal process, unit limitations, timely graduation, academic warning, and reinstatement). 

Referrals: Connects students with University resources to address academic and non-academic challenges. 

Advising Sessions: 

UCUA provides both prescheduled, in-person and online appointments and unscheduled, in-person and online drop-in advising sessions. 

For drop-in advising hours and additional information, 
visit the UCUA website
.

Visit the Center in person at the Shakarian Student Success Center, Room 140. 

Beach Transfer Transition Center (BTTC)

The Beach Transfer Transition Center (BTTC) serves as referral and programming center for all transfer students attending CSULB. The BTTC works with the colleges, campus offices, and special programs to provide specific programming to meet the diverse needs of transfer students and to ensure a smooth transition to CSULB. BTTC provides opportunities to actively connect students to each other (events, workshops, mentoring program) and appropriate resources on campus.  Visit the 
BTTC website
 for more information.  The BTTC is located in the Beach Academic Resource Center (BARC) in the Shakarian Student Success Center, Room 220.

Bickerstaff Academic Center for Student-Athlete Services

The Bickerstaff Academic Center (BAC) serves as an advising and academic resource for CSULB’s NCAA Division I student- athletes. The BAC’s mission is to promote student success for our student-athlete population, which include helping them maintain the academic standards necessary for NCAA eligibility, persist to graduation, and achieve their overall educational goals. While advising is the core service provided by the BAC, it also has developed additional academic support programs to help student-athletes succeed. These programs include Supervised Study Hall, Tutorial Program, Mentoring Program, First-Time First-Year Academic Skills Workshops, and Life Skill workshops in collaboration with the Athletics Department.

In addition, the BAC staff closely coordinates with other essential academic support services throughout the University including the Learning Center, University Writing Center, Career Developmental Center, College and Department-based tutorial services, Counseling and Psychological Services, and Student Orientation Advising and Registration. The BAC is located in KIN 67. For more information, visit the 
BAC website
 or call (562) 985-4777.

College of Business Center for Student Success

The COB Center for Student Success (CSS) is committed to encouraging personal and academic success for enrolled Pre-Business and Business majors. Our goals are to assist undergraduate students with making a successful transition to and establishing their place in the University and COB; to take responsibility for learning how to set academic, career, and personal goals and learning the strategies to achieve those goals; and to graduate in a timely manner by successfully meeting all major requirements. We provide services for current COB majors and minors. Each student is an important member of the COB community, and we want your experience here to be a successful one.  

Students can meet with their COB Advisor by scheduling through BeachConnect or during Drop-In hours posted on our website.  CSS also provides learning support by way of free tutoring through our COB Study Annex, which provides both in-person and virtual services during the weekday and some weekends via appointments. Students can connect with CSS by visiting our office located in COB 100, emailing at 
COB-CSS@csulb.edu
, or via 
our Virtual Zoom Front Desk
.  For other services and information, you can visit 
the COB Center for Student Success Website
. 

Engineering Student Success Center (ESSC)

Associate Director of Academic Advising: Jason Deutschman (562) 985-2729

Director of Professional Development and Internships: Emmitt Clark (562) 985-1719

Director of Outreach and Recruitment: Saba Yohannes-Reda (562) 985-1463

Associate Director of Grades and Assessment: Katarina Spralja (562) 985-2653

The Engineering Student Success Center (ESSC) provides comprehensive services to pre-College of Engineering (COE) majors, fully declared COE majors, and prospective students. The activities of ESSC encompass first-year experience programs for freshmen and incoming transfer students, academic advising by professional and peer advisors, the COE tutoring center, outreach and recruitment activities, and professional development and internship opportunities. The ESSC Advising Office provides academic advising services to pre-Engineering majors as well as providing GE support to the college’s fully declared students. Located in EN2-304, the advising office encourages students to make appointments or walk-in for help from our professional advising staff. The COE Tutoring Center provides tutoring for all six COE departments. The COE Tutoring Center is open weekdays for appointments and walk-ins. For additional information about ESSC services and appointments, visit 
CSULB COE website
, call (562) 985-1800, or go to Engineering 2 (ENG 2) Room 304.  

College of Health and Human Services (CHHS) Academic Advising Center

The CHHS Academic Advising Center helps students make informed decisions about their academic, personal, and career goals. We provide professional academic advising for all CHHS discipline majors and minors, including General Education advising, degree requirements and options, course schedules, and graduation planning. For services, hours, contact information, and our Advising FAQ, visit the 
CHHS Advising website
. During business hours, call (562) 985-2691, or go to Human Services & Design (HSD) Room 117. 

College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics’ Academic Advising Center

The CNSM Academic Advising Center (AAC) is located in the Hall of Science, Room 164 (HSCI-164). The professional advisors in the AAC advise all pre-major students in CNSM and they facilitate their transition to faculty advisors when they declare a major. The AAC provides resources and support regarding academic programs; selection and sequence of course; assistance with enrollment for courses; goal setting and development; assistance in navigating academic requirements, policies, and procedures; and providing appropriate referrals and career planning. For more information, visit 
CNSM advising website
, visit the staff in HSCI-164, or email 
cnsm-advising@csulb.edu

Jensen Student Access to Sciences and Mathematics Center (SAS) Center

The James L. Jensen Student Access to Science and Mathematics (SAS) Center provides invaluable services and resources to students both within and outside the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics. The SAS Center is home to the Peer Mentor peer-tutoring program,  and federally-funded undergraduate research programs. With free, drop-in peer tutoring in most courses offered through CNSM, the SAS Center seeks to support students in their academic endeavors throughout their time on campus. Additionally, students can access pre-health professions advisement through the 
Whitaker Health Professions Office (HPAO).
This office provides individual and group advising, professional school application support, and workshops and events designed to help students across campus explore careers in various medical fields. Federally-funded research programs are geared towards STEM students with an interest in pursuing advanced degrees and provide unique and expansive opportunities to work side-by-side with faculty and graduate students in completing field and lab research. Additionaly, the SAS Center supports first-year students through summer orientation programs and the Beach XP Learning Communities and offers a dynamic workshop series each semester. 

The CNSM Academic Advising Center and SAS Center are a central hub for academic support for science and math students, as well as students enrolled in math and science courses. For more information, visit 
SAS Center website
, call 562.985.4682 or visit us in the Hall of Science (HSCI), room 164. 

Teacher Preparation Advising Center (TPAC) 

The Teacher Preparation Advising Center (TPAC) operates within the College of Education and offers pre-program and in-program advising and information for the Liberal Studies Bachelor’s Degree as well as the Integrated Teacher Education Program (ITEP). TPAC  also advises the Multiple Subject (elementary teaching), Single Subject (middle and high school teaching), Education Specialist (Special Education) and Urban Dual Credential Programs. Liberal Studies and Teacher Credential Academic Advisors provide academic advising on a drop-in and scheduled basis, discussing program requirements and planning, course schedules, and assistance in navigating academic policies and procedures. Advising appointments can be scheduled on BeachConnect up to two weeks in advance. Drop-in advising takes place Monday - Friday, 9 am - 12 pm and 1 pm - 5 pm in room EED-67. For more information visit 
TPAC website
, or the Liberal Studies 
website
, call (562) 98895-1105, or email 
ced-tpac@csulb.edu
.  

University Honors Program

The University Honors Program is committed to providing an academically rigorous, community-oriented and culturally diverse environment for a distinctly talented, motivated group of qualified students. While our intellectually driven, smaller sized classes represent our hallmark, UHP also offers much more, including incentives such as priority registration, study abroad scholarships, and leadership training. Our personalized and dedicated academic advisors, who work in collaboration with students’ major advisors, strive to enrich each student’s academic career holistically while also ensuring that students remain on track to timely graduation. These concerted efforts culminate with the yearlong undergraduate thesis or creative project alongside a faculty member.

UHP is open to all undergraduates: incoming first-year, transfer, and continuing students. Applicants should have a GPA of 3.5 or higher and show promise and interest in the areas of civic engagement, social justice, global learning, leadership, and research. If requirements are not met, students are encouraged to still apply and address any unfulfilled qualifications in their personal statement. University Honors students are exclusively eligible for President’s Scholarships, the most prestigious, merit-based awards granted by CSULB. For more information or to apply to the program, please visit the 
University Honors Program website
.

Student Academic Support Services

CSULB provides a broad range of educational and student support services to assist students. The following programs complement and support classroom instruction.

Bob Murphy Access Center

The Bob Murphy Access Center (BMAC) ensures students with disabilities as well as pregnant and parenting students have equal access to the classroom and campus environment through the provision of accommodations including parking assistance, notetakers, exam accommodations, sign language interpreters, real-time captioners, and more. BMAC programs include the Accessible Instructional Materials (AIM) Center which produces alternative media for the campus by converting text into Braille and offers computer support services; Deaf and Hard of Hearing Support Services, provides sign language interpreters and real-time captioners; the Stephen Benson Learning Disability Program identifies and assesses students for learning disabilities and eligibility for accommodations and support services; Lois Shakarian Educational Support Services coordinates the provision of exam accommodations and services such as parking, accessible furniture, and in-class notetakers; Services for students on the Autism spectrum include those through the LIFE (Learning Independence for Empowerment) Project which helps students make a successful transition to college life, enhance conversational and reciprocal social interaction skills, and provides a place for peer interaction.

The Workability IV (WAIV) program, belonging to the CSULB Career Development Center and in partnership with BMAC and the California Department of Rehabilitation refers students with disabilities for career services for up to 2-years after graduation. Services through WAIV include internships, job search, and other employment services. In addition, BMAC offers a variety of support services such as case management, disability management, writing assistance and tutoring. For additional information, please call 562-985-5401 or visit: 
BMAC website
.

California Student Opportunity and Access Program (Cal SOAP)

The California Student Opportunity and Access Program (Cal-SOAP) was established by the state legislature to improve the flow of information about postsecondary education and financial aid while raising the achievement levels of students who were historically underrepresented in post-secondary education. The Long Beach Cal-SOAP Consortium provides students within the Long Beach, Lynwood, Compton, Norwalk-La Mirada and Whittier regions, the information and services necessary to prepare for and gain admission to colleges and universities. For more information about CalSOAP, please visit 
CalSOAP website
 or email 
calsoap@csulb.edu
. Long Beach CalSOAP is funded through the California State Aid Commission. 

Career Development Center

The Career Development Center (CDC) empowers students to become effective leaders of their personal career journeys. Through career counseling, employer connections, and professional development opportunities, we prepare students to become skilled and productive members of the local, national, and global workforce. 

The CDC assists students with exploring career/major options, preparing them for their job search, and connecting them to employment opportunities.  

For more information, please call (562) 985-4151, visit: 
Career Development Center
 Brotman Hall, Room 250. 

Career Services

Career Management Tool & Job Board
: CareerLINK is exclusively for CSULB students, where you can register for career events, job fairs and workshops, access virtual drop-in advising, apply to on- and off-campus jobs and internships, and access online career tools. 

Career Counseling
: Individual appointments with a career counselor assist you with your career transition and job search strategy. Receive assistance clarifying values, interests, skills, and making a career decision. 

Internships
: Career advisors assist students from all majors with locating paid and unpaid internships with corporations, businesses, nonprofit agencies, and institutions. The CDC also provides students with information regarding obtaining academic credit for internships. 

Internship Class
: A one-unit elective course, Leadership in the Workplace, is available to undergraduate students seeking to obtain academic credit for an internship and is open to undergraduate students in all majors. 

Drop In Advising
: Career advisors provide assistance on a first-come, first-served basis for questions that can be answered in 10 - 15 minutes during regular business hours. 

Workshops/Webinars:
 Professional development topics including resume writing, interviewing techniques, job search and networking, or applying to graduate and professional schools. 

Employer Information Sessions:
 Visiting employers present company information and promote current job openings. 

On-Campus Interviews (OCI):
 Interview on campus with visiting employers. Alumni eligibility is determined by the specific employer posting the opportunity. 

Job Fairs:
 Meet with a large number of employers, in one setting, who are specifically seeking CSULB students and alumni for the purpose of employment. 

Workability IV (WAIV) Program
: In partnership with the Bob Murphy Access Center and the California Department of Rehabilitation students with disabilities receive career services for up to 2-years after graduation. Services through WAIV include internships, job search, and other employment services.

U.S. Passport Application Acceptance Office

The U.S. Passport Application Acceptance Office at CSULB is designated by the U.S. Department of State to accept passport applications. Passport processing is completed by the U.S. Department of State. Services include: acceptance of application for U.S. Passport, form D-11, and passport photographs. For information call (562) 985-7790 or visit 
CSULB Passport Office website
.

Center for Community Engagement

The Center for Community Engagement (CCE) supports students and faculty involved in community-based scholarship and learning such as service-learning, community-based participatory research, scholarship of engagement, and other types of campus-community engagement. Our purpose is to enrich the educational experience of students by serving as a facilitative partner and resource for students, faculty, staff, and community members in strengthening community capacity; promoting shared community-based participatory research and planning; and building social and political capital through the coordination of community and civic engagement, effective service learning, and reciprocal community collaboration. The Center is located in the Academic Services Building Room 127. For information call (562) 985-7131, email aa-cc@csulb.edu or visit 
CCE website
.

Center for International Education (CIE)

The Center for International Education (CIE) endeavors to cultivate a strong internationally focused educational community at CSULB. CIE is responsible for the recruitment, admission and advisement of degree-seeking international and exchange students for the university. International Enrollment Management (IEM) connects with prospective students around the world, supports international applicants through the admissions process, makes admissions decisions for undergraduate applicants, and reviews eligibility for admission to graduate departments. For more information contact 
CIE-Apply@csulb.edu
 or go to the 
CIE website
. 

CIE is also responsible for promoting and advising all study abroad programs. Education Abroad programs promote global learning community by offering a full range of programs that foster student success, global perspectives, and intercultural awareness. Many study abroad programs are led by CSULB faculty. Most courses are open to all majors, students from other universities, as well as CSULB faculty, staff, and members of the community on a space available basis. In addition, CIE conducts international events, assists in faculty international development and facilitates the invitation of international scholars to campus.

Educational Opportunity Center

The Educational Opportunity Center (EOC) program is a federally-funded grant designed to identify and assist under-resourced adults who want to enter, re-enter, continue, or enroll in a program of postsecondary education. EOC provides free information and assistance to individuals who meet program criteria. Our mission is to assist program participants reach their educational and career goals. Services include assistance with college admissions and financial aid applications, career advisement, financial literacy, postsecondary options, referrals to high school diploma, GED/HiSet completion program, and GED/HiSet fee assistance to those who qualify. For more information about EOC, please call 562.985.5412 or visit the 
EOC website
. Our office is located at 6300 State University Drive, Suite 230. EOC is funded by the U.S. Department of Education, Office of TRIO Programs.

Educational Opportunity Program (EOP)

EOP is a state funded program that provides access/admissions support, academic support, and retention services to low-income, first-generation college students to help them overcome obstacles that may prevent them from furthering their education and reaching their fullest potential. For more information about EOP, please call (562) 985- 5637 or visit the 
EOP website
. Our office is located in the Student Success Center (SSC-260).

Guardian Scholars

The CSULB Guardian Scholars Program assists current/former foster youth in their educational pursuits by offering services such as academic counseling, financial aid advising, tutoring, mentorship, skills assessment, and internship opportunities.. For more information about Guardian Scholars, please call 562-985-2639 , email 
DSA-CSULB.Guardian@csulb.edu, 
or visit 
Guardian Scholars website
. Our office is located in the University Student Union, Room 302 (USU 302). 

Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs (GEAR UP): 

GEAR UP (Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs), working under the U.S. Department of Education, is one of the nation’s largest and most effective programs focused on college and career readiness for low-income students.  The partnership grant provides students in the Norwalk La Mirada Unified School District the support, services, and interventions needed to earn a high school diploma and enroll into college.  First awarded in 2021, GEAR UP supports every student in the classes of 2027 and 2028 from middle school, throughout their matriculation to John Glenn High School and Norwalk High school, and into their first-year of college.  Our team utilizes a collaborative and integrated equity-centered approach when helping schools, students, and their parents successfully pursue higher education and achieve their career goals.   For more information on GEAR UP, please call 562-985.8443, email 
gearup@csulb.edu
, or visit 
GEAR UP Website
. Our office is located at 6300 East State University Drive, Suite 260, Long Beach CA 90815.  GEAR UP is funded by the U.S. Department of Education.  

Education Abroad

The Education Abroad office offers advising on a variety of study, internship, volunteer, and teach abroad opportunities. 

CSU International Programs (IP)

Developing inter-cultural communication skills and international understanding among its students is a vital mission of the California State University (CSU). Since its inception in 1963, the CSU International Programs (CSU IP) has contributed to this effort by providing qualified students an affordable opportunity to continue their studies abroad. for a full academic year in all programs and a semester option in some countries and programs. 

More than 20.000 CSU students have taken advantage of this unique study option. Also, through the CSU IP exchange partnerships, more than 5,000 international students have come to study at the CSU.

International Programs participants earn resident academic credit at their home university while they pursue full-time study at a host university or study center abroad. CSU IP serves the needs of students in more than 100 designated academic majors. Affiliated with nearly 60 recognized universities and institutions of higher education in 18 countries, CSU IP also offers a wide selection of study abroad destinations and learning environments.

International Program Listing

Area

School

Australia 

Griffith University, Macquarie University, Queensland University of Technology, University of Queensland, Western Sydney University 

Canada 

Concordia University

Chile 

Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile

China

Peking University (Beijing) 

Denmark

Danish Institute for Study Abroad. (This exchange is currently inactive.)

France

Aix-Marseille Université

CY Cergy Paris Université

École Normale Supérieure Paris-Saclay (ENS)

ESSCA, Aix-en-Provence Campus (effective Spring 2024)

Institut Catholique de Paris

Institut Polytechniques des Sciences Avancées (IPSA)

Institut Supérieur d’Electronique de Paris (ISEP)

Science Politiques Saint-Germain-En-Laye

Sorbonne Université

Université d’Evry Val-d’Essonne (UEVE)

Université de Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines (UVSQ)

Université Paris Cité

Université Gustave Eiffel

Université Panthéon-Assas

Université Paris 1 Panthéon-Sorbonne

Université Paris 8 - Vincennes-Saint-Denis

Université Paris Nanterre

Université Paris-Est Créteil Val-de-Marne (UPEC)

Université Paris-Saclay

Université Sorbonne Nouvelle (formerly Paris 3)

Université Sorbonne Paris Nord

Germany

Hochschule Biberach

Hochschule der Medien Stuttgart

Hochschule für Forstwirtschaft Rottenburg

Hochschule Furtwangen

Hochschule Konstanz

Hochschule Mannheim

Hochschule für Wirtschaft und Umwelt Nürtingen-Geislingen

Hochschule Reutlingen

Hochschule Ravensburg-Weingarten

Hochschule Ulm

Karlsruher Institut für Technologie

Pädagogische Hochschule Freiburg

Pädagogische Hochschule Ludwigsburg

Staatliche Hochschule für Musik Trossingen

Staatliche Akademie der Bildenden Künste Stuttgart

Universität Freiburg

Universität Heidelberg

Universität Hohenheim

Universität Konstanz

Universität Mannheim

Universität Stuttgart

Universität Tübingen

Universität Ulm

Ghana

University of Ghana 

Israel

University of Haifa 

Italy

CSU Florence Study Center, Accademia di Belle Arti Firenze 

Japan

Waseda University, University of Tsukuba 

Mexico

Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey, Campus Querétaro 

South Africa

Nelson Mandela University 

South Korea

Yonsei University, Korea University 

Spain

Universidad Complutense de Madrid, Universidad de Granada, Universidad de Jaén 

Sweden

Uppsala University 

Taiwan

National Taiwan University

United Kingdom 

University of Bradford, University of Bristol, University of Hull, Kingston University, Swansea University, University of Birmingham 

Students participating in CSU IP pay CSU tuition and program fees. Financial Aid with the expectation of Federal Work-Study program is available to qualified students. Limited scholarship opportunities are also available. Many programs are open to sophomores or graduate students. California Community College transfer students are eligible to apply (to select programs) directly from their community colleges. Students must possess a current cumulative grade point average of 2.75 or 3.0, depending on the program, and must fulfill all coursework prerequisites. Additional program information and application instructions can be found on the 
International Programs website
.

CSULB International Programs 

CSULB offers one-semester or one-year Direct Exchange programs at 58 partner universities for either the fall or spring semester. Students are enrolled full-time at CSULB, pay regular CSULB tuition, may use Financial Aid (if eligible), and receive CSULB credit. For most locations, the cost of living is the same as or less than living in southern California. The requirements for these programs are generally a 2.75- 3.0 GPA
 
and Sophomore/Junior/Senior
 
class standing.

In addition, students may participate in CSULB faculty-led semester and short-term programs abroad.  Internship options are also available.

CSULB program information is available online on
 the CIE Website
. 

International Students and Scholars

International Students and Scholars Services (ISS) office serves some 2,700 non‑immigrant students, representing over 90 countries, by assisting them with their academic, personal, and cultural growth and development during their years at CSULB. This is accomplished through professional advising; assistance with Department of Homeland Security (DHS) regulations, paperwork processing, and documentation; student orientation and programs; and assistance with registration. The ISS staff also serves as the University liaison with consulates, embassies, businesses, foundations, and community organizations concerning international students at CSULB. ISS is located in the Center for International Education in Foundation Building, Room 185.

Internship courses or fieldwork in courses require F-1 international students to obtain CPT approval from ISS. Failure to obtain appropriate CPT approval will negatively affect eligibility for Optional Practical Training.

The Learning Center

The Learning Center offers four primary programs to help students achieve academic success. The Academic Coaching Program views learning as a life-long process. Students, regardless of their perceived capabilities, are able to learn, grow, and develop at all stages of their academic careers.  The Academic Coaching Program offers free individual appointments and classroom workshops to help students consider, review, and master their study habits and strategies. The Tutorial Services Program offers individual and drop-in tutoring for specific course content to help students master class material and maximize their potential. Support is available for a wide variety of courses across business, the sciences, and the humanities. The ESL Language and Writing Tutoring Program offers free appointment-based tutoring and an informal drop-in conversation lab for international students and other second language learners. The ESL Program is for students interested in improving their English speaking, grammar, reading, and writing skills, as well as their fluency/confidence, and familiarity with American idioms and culture. The Supplemental Instruction Program provides peer-based in-class support for historically difficult courses and specific freshman populations. The purpose of SI is twofold: to help students master course content while also encouraging them to reflect on their evolution as life-long learners-all with an eye toward helping students achieve their fullest potential at CSULB and in the future. The Learning Center typically hires student employees for fall and spring semester. For more information or to make an appointment, visit our website at 
The Learning Center website
, or call us at (562) 985-5350. The Learning Center is located in the Student Success Center, Room 160.

Men’s Success Initiative
    
The Men’s Success Initiative (MSI) seeks to support young men of color in their academic endeavors at CSULB. Our goal is to improve access, retention, and graduation rates by providing academic support, professional development, and mentoring. For more information about MSI, please call 562-985-4618 , email 
MenSuccess@csulb.edu
, or visit  
MSI website
. Our office is located in the  Shakarian Student Success Center (SSSC- 260). 

Ronald E. McNair Post-Baccalaureate Achievement Program (McNair Scholars) 

The Ronald E. McNair Scholars Program prepares and supports low income, first-generation and racially underrepresented undergraduate students from any field of study in pursuit of a doctoral degree studies. We offer a variety of research and scholarly activities including a paid summer research internship, workshops and seminars, research methods curriculum in partnership with University Honors Program, and faculty mentorship.  

Students meet with staff and faculty to conduct and report on research projects, prepare graduate school application materials, and visit graduate school programs. For more information about the McNair Scholars program, please call 562-985-2040, email 
mcnair@csulb.edu
, follow us on Instagram CSULB_McNair or visit 
CSULB McNair website.
 Our office is located in the Student Success Center (SSC-120C).  McNair is funded by the U.S. Department of Education, Office of TRIO Programs. 

CalWORKs Program 

CalWORKs
 is the California Work Opportunity and Responsibility to Kids program administered through the Department of Public Social Services. The social service program provides benefits (financial assistance, child-care, transportation, and more) to families with minor children. The program serves all counties in the state and is operated locally by county public social services office. 

If you need questions or need assistance to apply, please contact the Women and Gender Equity Center (WGEC) at 562-985-8576 or wgec@csulb.edu 

Student Support Services Program (SSSP)
  
TRiO Student Support Services Program (SSS) at CSULB is a federally-funded program designed to assist students who are low-income, first-generation to college, or have a disability; and who demonstrate academic need and the motivation to achieve their maximum potential in higher education. TRIO SSS promotes a positive learning environment, building a sense of belonging, and serving as advocates for participants. For more information about SSS, please call 562-985-2185, email 
sssp@csulb.edu, 
or visit 
SSSP website
. Our office is located in the Student Success Center (SSC-280).

*All three TRiO SSS programs: Classic, Disability, STEM and Health Sciences are funded by the U.S. Department of Education, Office of TRIO Programs.

Summer Bridge Program

The Summer Bridge Program is a one-week transition program for all EOP first-year students. The program is designed to help students bridge the gap between high school and college through intentional programming and enrichment activities. T For more information about the Summer Bridge Program, please call (562) 985-5637 or visit 
Summer Bridge Program website.
 Our office is located in the Shakarian Student Success Center (SSSC-260). 

Educational Talent Search

The Educational Talent Search (ETS) program has been helping low-income and potential first-generation students successfully graduate from secondary school and enroll in post-secondary education since 1977. Targeting thirteen high schools in the greater Long Beach/Los Angeles area, ETS advisors guide students in their search for higher-education enrollment. College tours, college and career planning, college and financial aid application assistance and scholarship resources are among the many services  ETS offers students of target schools. ETS High Schools: Bell, Centennial, Compton, Dominguez, Huntington Park, Jordan, and Lynwood and Maywood. ETS South Bay- High Schools: Banning, Carson Complex, Gardena, Narbonne, and Rancho Dominguez. For more information on ETS, please call 562-985-3108, email: 
ets@csulb.edu
, or visit 
ETS website
. Our office is located at 5500 Atherton Street, Suite 202, Long Beach.  ETS is funded by the U.S. Department of Education, Office of TRIO Programs. 

The Dream Success Center
      
The Dream Success Center, established with the intent to provide services, resources, and support to undocumented students on the CSULB campus. Our mission is to empower scholars who are undocumented in their pursuit of higher education and foster a supportive campus community dedicated to their educational and personal success. For more information about DSC please call 562-985-5869, email: 
dream@csulb.edu
 or visit 
Dream Center website
.  Our office is located in the Student Success Center (SSC-290).

Educational Partnership Programs (EPP) 

TRiO and Migrant Programs offers seven (California Student Opportunity and Access Program (Cal SOAP), Educational Opportunity Center (EOC), Educational Talent Search (ETS), Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs (GEAR UP), McNair Scholars Program (McNair), Student Support Services Program (SSSP), Upward Bound Program (UB), and Upward Bound Math & Science Program (UBMS)) innovative, federally and state-funded, student-centered programs designed to meet the needs of traditionally underrepresented individuals in higher education. These programs help students advance through the academic process from middle school to baccalaureate programs and beyond. For more information about EPP, please call us at 562-985-2185, email: 
trio@csulb.edu, 
or visit 
TRIO website
. Our main office is located in the Student Success Center (SSC-280). TRIO and GEAR UP are funded by the U.S. Department of Education, Cal SOAP is funded by the California Student Aid Commission (CSAC). 

Upward Bound (UB)
  
Upward Bound provides fundamental support to participants in their preparation for college entrance. The program provides opportunities for participants to succeed in pre-college performance and ultimately in higher education pursuits. Upward Bound serves high school students from low-income families and high school students from families in which neither parent holds a bachelor’s degree. Instruction in literature, composition, mathematics, and science and tutoring are provided during the academic year as well as a 6-week summer experience that simulates college. Assistance with college applications and financing provided. CUB 1 High Schools: John Glenn, Paramount, Long Beach Cabrillo and Jordan high schools. CUB 2 High Schools: Centennial, Compton, Dominguez, and Gardena high schools. For more information on UB, please call 562-985-3114, email 
upwardbound@csulb.edu,
 or visit
 Upward Bound website.
 Our office is located at 5500 E Atherton, Suite 326, Long Beach, CA 90815.  UB is funded by the U.S. Department of Education, Office of TRIO Programs. 

Upward Bound Math & Science Program (UBMS): 

The Upward Bound Math and Science program is designed to strengthen the math and science skills of participating students. The goal of the program is to help students recognize and develop their potential to excel in math and science and to encourage them to pursue postsecondary degrees in math and science, and ultimately careers in the math and science profession. Program services include: summer programs with intensive math and science training; year-round advising and advisement; exposure to university faculty members who do research in mathematics and the sciences; computer training; and participant-conducted scientific research under the guidance of faculty members or graduate students, who are serving as mentors; education or counseling services designed to improve the financial and economic literacy of students; and programs and activities previously mentioned that are specially designed for students who are limited English proficient, students from groups that are traditionally underrepresented in postsecondary education, students with disabilities, students who are homeless children and youths, students who are in foster care or are aging out of foster care system or other disconnected students.  CUB 1 High Schools: John Glenn, Paramount, Long Beach Cabrillo and Jordan high schools. CUB 2 High Schools: Centennial, Compton, Dominguez, and Gardena high schools. For more information on UB, please call 562-985-3114, email 
upwardbound@csulb.edu
, or visit 
Upward Bound website
. Our office is located at 5500 E Atherton, Suite 326, Long Beach, CA 90815.  UB is funded by the U.S. Department of Education, Office of TRIO Programs. 

University Writing Center

The University Writing Center offers individualized writing tutoring to students across the campus to help them to grow as writers. Students in all majors and at all class standings from freshman to graduate levels are welcome at the center and will get their writing questions and concerns addressed, be it for a paper they’re working on for a class, a research or creative project, or an application to graduate school. Additionally, the writing center also offers workshops on a variety of topics related to writing, including a series of workshops that help students prepare for the GWAR Placement Exam (GPE). For more information or to make a tutoring appointment, please visit 
the University Writing Center 
website
 stop by the center at SSSC-245 or call (562) 985-5162.

Campus Services

Basic Needs

Basic Needs is a comprehensive initiative in the Division of Student Affairs that is committed to removing barriers for some of CSULB’s most at-risk students. The program identifies and immediately serves students who are displaced or could be displaced, food insecure and experiencing an emergency situation or crisis. For more information, please call (562) 985-2038, visit 
Basic Needs Program website,
 or visit the main office in USU 112.

Beach Central

Beach Central serves as a one-stop center for Admissions, Student Records, and Financial Aid & Scholarships. This team offers individualized support for students and their parents by providing guidance and answering questions related to admission, graduation, academic appeals, transfer credit, residency, and financial aid. Because these services are centralized, students will not need to contact multiple offices to get their questions answered. Students receive more comprehensive and personalized services, in-person or online, with the ability to form relationships with their Beach Central counselors. Overall, our goal is Service Excellence: creating efficiencies that save students’ valuable time using improved delivery techniques.

Beach Central staff also offer workshops on various topics, including residency, financial aid requirements, student satisfactory progress, degree planning, online registration tools, and more throughout the semester.

For more information, please refer to the 
Beach Central website
 or visit the front windows in the Brotman Hall first-floor courtyard. Workshops and individual appointments are offered online and in the Beach Central Office, Brotman Hall 201. 

Child Development Center, Isabel Patterson

The Isabel Patterson Child Development Center (IPCDC) serves as a family support service for CSULB students by offering high-quality early care and development education programs for children from six months through second grade that are rooted in relationships based on trust, respect, and acceptance. This service enables student parents to achieve their educational goals while allowing their children to reach their full potential. Enrollment priority is given to CSULB students and then opened to faculty and staff, CSULB alumni, and the community as space allows. For more information, please call (562) 985-5333, visit the
 IPCDC website
, or visit the Center at 5700 Atherton Street.

Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS)

CAPS provides students with short-term counseling, group counseling, referrals to community providers, psycho-educational workshops, and crisis intervention services. The Center also helps students meet personal challenges associated with identifying and achieving academic, career, and life goals. For more information, please call (562) 985-4001, visit 
CAPS website
,
 or visit Brotman Hall, Room 226.

Student Health Services (SHS)

SHS provides medical and behavioral health services, as well as preventive health and health education programs. All regularly enrolled CSULB students who have registered for the current semester and have paid the $75.00 mandatory health fee are eligible for services. Services also are available for students taking classes through the College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPaCE) for $15.00 per visit (while classes are in session), and for students on educational leave for a non-refundable $75 fee. Most medical and behavioral health services are covered under the basic service fee, with the exception of pharmacy and some lab work.

An array of health and wellness programs, alcohol and drug abuse prevention workshops, nutrition counseling, HIV testing/counseling, and sexual health awareness workshops are offered at SHS. For more information, please call (562) 985- 4771, visit 
SHS website,
 or visit SHS located on the corner of Beach Drive and Merriam Way, across from the School of Nursing.

Note: Any medical emergency arising on campus should be directed to University Police by dialing 9-1-1.

NEW! Immunization Requirements Fall 2020

“The California State University (CSU) is committed to the protection of health and wellness of all students. To comply with this overarching goal, CSU campuses implement procedures to ensure that students are educated about and receive immunizations to prevent potentially serious and contagious diseases.”

- CSU Executive Order 803

All incoming students must show proof of the following vaccines:

Measles, Mumps, and Rubella (MMR): 2 doses on or after the first birthday or laboratory test to show proof of immunity (titer).

Varicella (Chickenpox): 2 doses on or after the first birthday or laboratory tests to show proof of immunity (titers).

Tetanus, Diphtheria, and Pertussis (Tdap): One dose on or after the age of 7 years.

Hepatitis B (students 18 and younger on first day of classes)

Meningitis ACY-W (Menactra or Menveo): One dose on or after the age of 16.

Meningitis B (Trumemba or Bexsero) - 
Required for Housing students only
: 
Students age 16-23 who will be living in housing must complete all doses prior to moving into housing.

All students who were born or have lived outside of the United States must provide proof of a negative Tuberculosis skin test or a negative blood test (Quantiferon Gold test) within 6 months prior to entry into CSULB.

Please visit 
CSULB Immunization website
 for information on how to submit immunization documentation, and deadlines for submission.

Exemptions

Only medical exemptions are allowed. Students with a medical condition which is a contraindication to vaccination for the following vaccines: (MMR, Varicella, Tdap, or Meningitis) will need to have the required Medical Exemption Request Form completed by a board certified, licensed physician (MD, DO), Physician Assistant (PA), or Nurse Practitioner (NP). Please visit 
CSULB Immunization website 
to download the medical exemption form. 

For additional information regarding the new immunization requirements, please visit 
CSULB Immunizations website
 or the Student Health Services website 
SHS website
. You may also call 562-985-4771 or visit Student Health Services for inquiries and assistance.

For students facing special circumstances, please contact Student Health Services at 562-985-2208.

University Ombuds

This Office of University Ombuds is an independent, neutral (or impartial) resource for informal problem-solving serving the entire campus community and the local community to address concerns related to CSULB. The Ombuds office answers inquiries about the university, provides a safe place for discussing sensitive issues and identifying options, facilitates conversations and engages in informal conflict resolution, including mediation. In addition, the Ombuds office assists individuals and groups in managing conflicts and raising concerns in service of a highly effective and healthy organization.

The Office of University Ombuds maintains confidentiality in accordance with the Standards of Practice (SOP) & Code of Ethics (COE) of the International Ombuds Association (IOA), the limits of the law, and our organizational context. Appointments are suggested; walk-in visitors are usually accommodated depending on availability.

Contact Information:  Location: CSULB Foundation, Suite 140; Telephone: (562) 985-5983; Website: 
CSULB Ombuds Website
 or Email: 
ombuds@csulb.edu
. 

University Library

The library provides information resources that support teaching and learning and provides enrichment and recreation for members of the campus community, as well as other scholars and community members. Library staff are committed to helpful, efficient customer service. Home to the Spidell Center, the largest student computing facility on campus, the library is a leader in the delivery of digital content and in marshaling technology to facilitate scholarly inquiry. For more information, visit 
University Library website
.

Veterans Services

Veterans Services is the primary support center at CSULB for military service members, veterans, and dependents. A primary role of the office is to certify student eligibility for educational benefits offered by the

U.S. and California Departments of Veterans Affairs. Other services include outreach to prospective military-affiliated students, advising, and advocacy for service members, veterans, and their dependents. A U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Counselor is available to assist with federal veterans benefits through the VetSuccess on Campus program. For more information about Veterans Services, please call (562) 985-5115, email 
veterans@csulb.edu
, or visit
 Veterans Services website.

Student Life and Resources

There are many options for students to get involved and create positive experiences and relationships at CSULB. Students are encouraged to make social connections and make a positive difference in order to make the most of their time at “The Beach.”

Student Life and Development (SLD)

The Office of Student Life and Development provides extensive developmental, leadership, service, and involvement opportunities for students. SLD aims to develop and provide co-curricular opportunities that cultivate community, ethical leadership, and personal development. Overseeing the American Indian Student Services Program, Student Academic Travel Grant, Club Sports, Fraternity and Sorority Life, Leadership, and Student Organizations, SLD services include orientation for student leaders, organizational and program advising, and event approvals for more than 300 recognized student organizations.  SLD encourages all students to get involved in one of our programs to build their leadership skills, create positive experiences, and form connections to maximize their time at The Beach. For more information, please call  (562) 985-4181, visit the 
Student Life and Development 
website
, or visit the University Student Union, Room 215.

Club Sports

Club Sports and Recreation, an area within Student Life and Development, offers opportunities for students to engage in competitive and non-competitive sports and recreation student organizations whether the student is new to the activity or well-seasoned. There are more than 40 club sports and recreation student organizations that engage in activities such as dance, lacrosse, martial arts, marine-based teams, and rugby to name a few. Many of the club sports activities offer students the chance to compete on a collegiate level, traveling locally, regionally, and nationally for competition. Recreational organizations provide opportunities for participants to learn new skills and recreate with others both on and off campus. For information, call (562) 985-7351, or go to the 
Club Sports website.

College Organizations

Many academic departments have academically-related student organizations and discipline-based honorary societies. Students from each academic organization departmental association work together on a college student council for each of the seven colleges. These groups promote interaction between faculty and students and sponsor speakers, seminars, social gatherings, and other activities. Staff from Student Life and Development play a key role in coordinating major events sponsored by these groups.

Fraternity and Sorority Life

Fraternities and sororities play an important role on CSU Long Beach campus as well as throughout the Long Beach community and beyond. Fraternity and Sorority Life, an area within Student Life and Development, was founded on Scholarship & Learning, Leadership & Values, Philanthropy & Service, and Brotherhood & Sisterhood. Being part of these organizations will provide ample opportunities for students to participate in activities that will enhance their personal development, promote academic success, and advance leadership skills. For more information information, please visit the Fraternity and Sorority Life website or email at FraternityandSororityLife@csulb.edu.   

Graduate Center (GC)

The 
Graduate Center
 (GC) is dedicated to enhancing post-baccalaureate opportunities, program completion, and student success at California State University, Long Beach by providing academic and professional support services for current and prospective graduate students.

GC services include advising for current and prospective graduate students; graduate writing support; academic and professional development workshops; centralized outreach and recruitment for graduate programs; mock interviews for graduate admissions; laptop loan program; funding opportunities for students including the Graduate Travel Fellowship. The GC hosts graduate events including the annual Graduate Research Conference / Grad Slam Competition, Graduate Fair, and an Incoming Graduate Orientation. Other GC programming includes the 
GradMentor program
 and 
Sally Casanova Pre-Doctoral Scholars program
.

Lois J. Swanson Leadership Resource Center & Leadership Programs

The Leadership Resource Center (LRC) prepares CSULB students to be the world’s best leaders and maximize their leadership potential with a commitment to serve others through its services and programs. The LRC provides a leadership library and offers consultations for classroom facilitation, conferences, and customized workshops and  seminars. The LRC’s signature leadership development programs for students are the Leadership Academy program and the Emerging Leaders Certificate Program. The Leadership Academy is a certificate-bearing leadership development program composed of workshops, community service, and practical application using the Social Change Model of Leadership as its programmatic framework and foundation. The purpose of the Academy is to help students increase their understanding of leadership skills and improve their leadership potential. The Emerging Leaders Certificate program introduces leadership development topics to CSULB students through interactive workshops and experiences. The focus of this program is to begin students’ development as future leaders. For information, call (562) 985-1936, email   (
leaders@csulb.edu
), or visit the University Student Union, Room 314.  

Office of Multicultural Affairs

Mission: The Office of Multicultural Affairs aims to celebrate, center and build solidarity with historically underrepresented students  and create developmental, opportunities to educate, advocate and connect. OMA seeks to broaden the understanding of multiculturalism through student facing social justice workshops, cultural events and identity based programming. OMA empowers students to critically challenge sexism, racism, anti-blackness, heterosexism, ableism, transphobia, and all forms of oppression.  For more information about eprograms and events offered by the  Office of Multicultural Affairs, call (562)985-8150 or visit 
OMA website
.  Our office is located in the Faculty Office Building 3 (FO3), Room 3. 

Student Government

The Associated Students Government provides for student self-governance and the development of leadership abilities to ensure the full and effective participation of students in civic affairs and campus shared governance. ASI offers student programs and activities that complement the academic curriculum of the university and develop career-related skills. ASI also advances student welfare beyond the university setting by mobilizing student participation in the full range of democratic channels including voter education, voter registration, and legislative lobbying. For more information, please visit 
ASI website
.

Cultural and Identity Resource Centers 

The Cultural and Identity Resource Centers) create a student-centered inclusive environment that enriches the university experience.  We honor diversity, explore social justice issues, celebrate cultural traditions, and foster student identity development , success, and leadership. The Centers offer computer labs, lounge and study spaces, events and extensive programming.  All CSULB students are welcome. Locations:                                                                                          

Asian American and Pacific Islander Resource Center (FO4-276) 

Black  Resource Center (FO4-274) 

LGBTQ Resource Center (FO4-165) 

Muslim Student l Resource Center (FO4-281) 

Puvungna Resource Center (USU-310) 

Raza Resource Center (FO4-262) 

Student Recreation and Wellness Center

The Student Recreation & Wellness Center (SRWC) is a 125,000+ square foot facility, home to free fitness programs, discounted instructional classes, a rock-climbing wall, multiactivity courts, swimming pool, sand volleyball court, 20,000+ square feet of weight room and cardio space, and much more. The SRWC serves as a place for students, faculty, staff, and alumni to exercise, study, and hang out  - all while providing opportunities to students for employment and hands-on internship experience. Operated by Associated Students, Inc.(ASI). For more information, please visit the 
SRWC website.

Thesis and Dissertation Office

The 
Thesis and Dissertation Office
 supports graduate students prepare their theses and dissertations for online publication and is often the final step before graduation. This service guides students through the processes of submission and revision by offering formatting resources, citation guides, templates, formatting workshops, and individualized consultations.

University Interfaith Center

This center is an association of 12 faith traditions serving the educational community of CSULB. The Center strives to enhance the educational experience by encouraging students, faculty and staff in their pursuit of spiritual growth, community building, faith development and personal values. For more information, please call (562) 985- 7595 or visit  University Library, Room 502.

University Student Union

Located in the center of campus, the 180,000 suare foot University Student Union (USU) offers weekly entertainment programs and numerous recreation and leisure events. A “home away from home,” the USU’s amenities include cosmic bowling lanes, billiards, video gaming, various lounge spaces, a rentable event and meeting space, a coffee house, and a food court. Retail vendors include a hair salon, a full-service bank, and ATMs for Southland Credit Union and SchoolsFirst Credit Union. Discounted theme park and movie tickets are also sold at the USU Information & Ticket Center, operated by Associated Students, Inc. (ASI). For more information, please visit 
the ASI website.

Women’s and Gender Equity Center

The mission of the Women’s and Gender Equity Center (WGEC) is to inform and prepare the campus and larger community to foster an understanding of gender that is continually evolving in academia and society. Our responsibility is to promote gender equity among individuals of diverse gender identities and expressions through an intentional educational approach rooted in social justice principles, thereby advocating change for those affected by gender-based oppression. The WGEC provides a welcoming space for studying, small group meetings, or socializing; three (3) computer workstations, refrigerator, small fridge to store breastmilk, and a microwave. The WGEC staff also will make referrals to appropriate campus and community resources. For more information, please call 562-985-8576, go to  
WGEC website
, email 
wgec@csulb.edu
, or visit us in the Student Success Center, Room 240.

Print (opens a new window)
Help (opens a new window)

T

                                    SERVICES
                                
Emergency Information

Crisis Assistance

CARES Team

Accessibility Statement

Student Health Center

                                        Colleges
                                    
The Arts

Education

Business Administration

Professional and International Education

Engineering

Liberal Arts

Health & Human Services

Natural Sciences & Mathematics

Engineering

Liberal Arts

Health & Human Services

Natural Sciences & Mathematics

                                        Additional Resources
                                    
About CSULB

University
 Careers

University Police

Campus Directory

Strategic Communications

Download Document Reader

Strategic Communications

C S U L B
 Contact Us

CSU

Site Index

Feedback

SERVICES

Emergency Information

Crisis Assistance

CARES Team

Accessibility Statement

Student Health Center

Colleges

The Arts

Education

Business Administration

Professional and International Education

Engineering

Liberal Arts

Health & Human Services

Natural Sciences & Mathematics

Additional Resources

About CSULB

University
 Careers

University Police

Campus Directory

Strategic Communications

Download Document Reader

C S U L B
 Contact Us

California State University 
Long Beach

                                            1250 Bellflower Boulevard
                                        
Long Beach, California
 
90840

                                        562.985.4111
                                    
All 
catalogs
 © 2024 California State University, Long Beach.
 
Powered by 
Modern Campus Catalog™
.

