
The BEACH EDGE: Expedited Degrees in Graduate Education at CSULB - California State University, Long Beach - Modern Campus Catalog™

Skip to Content

|
University Catalog

Toggle Menu

CURRENT CATALOG

SCHEDULE OF CLASSES

STUDENT CENTER

CATALOG ARCHIVES

	California State University, Long Beach

				Jun 15, 2024			

2024-2025 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog
 
Select a Catalog

2024-2025 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog

2023-2024 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2022-2023 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2021-2022 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2020-2021 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2019-2020 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2018-2019 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2017-2018 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2024-2025 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog

Global Search

Catalog Search

Choose Search Location

Select an option

Courses

Programs

Schools and Departments

Other Content

Entire Catalog

Entire Catalog

Search Keyword Field

S
earch

Whole Word/Phrase

					Advanced Search				

Catalog Navigation

Catalog Home

The California State University

Admission to CSULB

Fees and Financial Aid

Baccalaureate Degree Information

Academic Information and Regulations

Academic Services and Campus Life

Graduate Degree Information

Beach EDGE

Colleges and Departments

Courses

General Policies and Regulations

Print (opens a new window)
Help (opens a new window)

2024-2025 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog
 
							  The BEACH EDGE: Expedited Degrees in Graduate Education at CSULB							  

General Description

Expedited Degrees in Graduate Education (EDGE) programs merge an existing baccalaureate and master’s degree program in similar disciplines into a single pathway that allows the double-counting of a specified number of units (no more than 12) in both programs. These programs are also known as “Blended” or “4+1” programs.

Beach EDGE programs
 allow CSULB students to complete their bachelor’s and master’s at a potentially lower cost and in shorter periods of time.  In Beach EDGE Programs, a minimum of 138-semester units (e.g., BS 120 + MS 30, subtracting 12 units double-counted) are required to earn both degrees.  Beach EDGE students pay undergraduate tuition for graduate courses (until they meet the units needed for the baccalaureate program).

Doctoral, credential, certificate, or other non-master’s post-baccalaureate degrees are not eligible to be a Beach EDGE Program with a bachelor’s program.  Not all bachelor’s and master’s degrees are Beach EDGE degree programs.  

List of Beach EDGE Programs at CSULB

Bachelor’s and Master’s in Communication Studies
 
Bachelor’s in Consumer Affairs and Master’s in Gerontology
 
Bachelor’s and Master’s in Economics
 
Bachelor’s in Business Economics and Master’s in Economics
 
Bachelor’s in Economics, Mathematical Economics and Economic Theory Option and Master’s in Economics
 
Bachelor of Arts or Science and Master’s in Geography
 
Bachelor’s in Health Science and Master’s in Public Health in Community Health
 
Bachelor’s in Linguistics (General Option) and Master’s in Linguistics
 
Bachelor’s in Linguistics (Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages Option) and Master’s in Linguistics​  
 
    ​  

Bachelor’s in Linguistics (Translation Studies Option) and Master’s in Linguistics​  
 
   ​  

Bachelor’s in Nutrition and Food Science and Master’s in Applied Nutrition and Dietetics 
 
Eligibility and Admissions to Beach EDGE Programs

Eligible Students

Students can only apply to a Beach EDGE Program if they:
	
a. Are a matriculated undergraduate student at CSULB

b. Completed 60 units

c. Are in Junior or above standing

d. Are enrolled in or have completed 12 discipline-specific upper-division units in residence (i.e., at CSULB); programs can choose if units must be completed or in progress)

e. Met their major-specific requirements

f. Have a minimum GPA of 2.50 (programs may have a higher threshold)

Programs may have other requirements (e.g., a letter grade in a particular course). These additional requirements are posted on each Beach EDGE program’s website.

Application Process

Students apply internally by following the directions and meeting the deadlines outlined on their Beach Edge program’s website.

Students will not apply to the Beach EDGE Program via Cal State Apply. 

Once a student is admitted to the Beach EDGE Program, they are admitted to the master’s program (i.e., students will not have to also apply to the master’s program via Cal State Apply).

Title 5 Section 41001, which grants postbaccalaureate and graduate special-action admission, still applies.

Students who are denied admission to the Beach EDGE Program are still eligible to apply to the master’s program during its traditional admissions cycle via Cal State Apply.

When to Apply

Each Beach EDGE program has specified deadlines that are posted on their website.

Admissions-Enrollment Statuses

Admitted students are admitted in classified standing as an undergraduate to the bachelor’s component of the Beach EDGE Program (students cannot be admitted conditionally).  

All students admitted to the Beach EDGE program who accept their offer of admission must sign the Beach EDGE Agreement Form.

Once the student earns 120 units applicable to the Beach EDGE bachelor’s program (including the double-counted courses), they are moved into graduate status.  

Students do not apply separately to the master’s program.  Admission to the Beach EDGE program is admission to the master’s program.

Tuition and Financial Aid in a Beach EDGE Program 

Students classified as undergraduate students pay undergraduate tuition. 

Upon satisfying the requirements for the bachelor’s degree, students will be classified as graduate students and charged graduate tuition. Students in a master’s degree program that has been authorized to assess the higher graduate professional degree (“MBA Fee”) will only be charged that tuition fee for courses required to complete the fee-approved master’s degree program.

If students transition between undergraduate and graduate standing during the academic year, they should contact the Financial Aid Office to determine if adjustment paperwork is appropriate and allowable.

Students should complete the FAFSA or CADAA annually with the correct status listed (i.e., undergraduate or graduate). As with all graduate students, students in Beach EDGE Programs will have different funding allowances when they are in graduate status.

Beach EDGE Program Requirements

GPA Requirements

All courses applied toward the master’s degree must lead to a program GPA of at least 3.00, which includes double-counted courses. 

Coursework 

An undergraduate student in a Beach EDGE Program will take graduate-level courses required for the master’s degree.

Undergraduate students in a Beach EDGE Program shall enroll in the graduate level of double-numbered courses.

No more than 12 graduate-level semester units may double-count between the bachelor’s and master’s degree, as specified by the program. The Beach Edge program’s website details which courses may double-count and the total number of units allowable.

Only courses specified by the program and completed in residence at CSULB can double-count. 

Awarding of Degrees

Beach EDGE students must separately apply to graduate for each degree when their MyCSULB Student Center indicates they are eligible to apply.

Students are awarded their bachelor’s degree upon satisfactory completion of the requirements for the degree (this includes the double-counted courses). Students are evaluated for Latin honors based on the first 120 semester units (i.e., the time period of undergraduate degree objective) regardless of the number of graduate courses taken prior to the transition to graduate status.

Students are awarded their master’s degree upon satisfactory completion of the requirements for the degree.

International (F-1 Visa Holder) Students and Beach EDGE Programs

When an F-1 student in a Beach EDGE Program becomes a graduate student for visa purposes, CIE will issue a change of educational level (i.e., I-20 status) when they satisfactorily complete the requirements for the bachelor’s degree. This change will shift the minimum unit requirement for undergraduate student status (12 units) to that for graduate student status (7 units). 

International students in the F-1 permitted post-OPT for up to 12 months (or 24 months in STEM OPT) per degree level will have their OPT eligibility cancelled upon the date of their change in educational level to graduate student status, as indicated on the I-20. This will remain in effect until they complete the graduate program. 

This information should be shared with students via the programs’ websites and graduate student handbooks, where appropriate.

Changes in Enrollment

Students in a Beach EDGE Program who change majors or master’s programs will be withdrawn from the Beach EDGE Program.

Students who fail to maintain continuous enrollment will need to reapply to the program based on their student status (if they ceased enrollment in undergraduate student status, then they must apply to the bachelor’s program and reapply to the Beach EDGE Program; if they ceased enrollment in graduate student status, then they must apply to the master’s program). 

If a student in a Beach EDGE Program opts not to complete the master’s program but completes the bachelor’s degree requirements, they will receive their baccalaureate degree and be withdrawn from the Beach EDGE Program. There shall be no related cost to the student and no refund of previous graduate fees paid.
	
a. If the student decides to return to pursue their master’s program in the future, they shall formally apply for graduate admission. With the approval of their academic department, students may count graduate courses completed during their Beach EDGE Program towards their master’s degree. Such courses cannot exceed seven years since completion, unless approved for validation by both the academic program and the Dean of Graduate Studies or designee.

Print (opens a new window)
Help (opens a new window)

T

                                    SERVICES
                                
Emergency Information

Crisis Assistance

CARES Team

Accessibility Statement

Student Health Center

                                        Colleges
                                    
The Arts

Education

Business Administration

Professional and International Education

Engineering

Liberal Arts

Health & Human Services

Natural Sciences & Mathematics

Engineering

Liberal Arts

Health & Human Services

Natural Sciences & Mathematics

                                        Additional Resources
                                    
About CSULB

University
 Careers

University Police

Campus Directory

Strategic Communications

Download Document Reader

Strategic Communications

C S U L B
 Contact Us

CSU

Site Index

Feedback

SERVICES

Emergency Information

Crisis Assistance

CARES Team

Accessibility Statement

Student Health Center

Colleges

The Arts

Education

Business Administration

Professional and International Education

Engineering

Liberal Arts

Health & Human Services

Natural Sciences & Mathematics

Additional Resources

About CSULB

University
 Careers

University Police

Campus Directory

Strategic Communications

Download Document Reader

C S U L B
 Contact Us

California State University 
Long Beach

                                            1250 Bellflower Boulevard
                                        
Long Beach, California
 
90840

                                        562.985.4111
                                    
All 
catalogs
 © 2024 California State University, Long Beach.
 
Powered by 
Modern Campus Catalog™
.

