
Admission to CSULB - California State University, Long Beach - Modern Campus Catalog™

Skip to Content

|
University Catalog

Toggle Menu

CURRENT CATALOG

SCHEDULE OF CLASSES

STUDENT CENTER

CATALOG ARCHIVES

	California State University, Long Beach

				Jun 15, 2024			

2024-2025 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog
 
Select a Catalog

2024-2025 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog

2023-2024 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2022-2023 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2021-2022 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2020-2021 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2019-2020 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2018-2019 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2017-2018 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]

2024-2025 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog

Global Search

Catalog Search

Choose Search Location

Select an option

Courses

Programs

Schools and Departments

Other Content

Entire Catalog

Entire Catalog

Search Keyword Field

S
earch

Whole Word/Phrase

					Advanced Search				

Catalog Navigation

Catalog Home

The California State University

Admission to CSULB

Fees and Financial Aid

Baccalaureate Degree Information

Academic Information and Regulations

Academic Services and Campus Life

Graduate Degree Information

Beach EDGE

Colleges and Departments

Courses

General Policies and Regulations

Print (opens a new window)
Help (opens a new window)

2024-2025 Undergraduate and Graduate Catalog
 
							  Admission to CSULB							  

Choosing CSULB

Admissions Procedures and Policies

First-Time, First Year Applicants

International Student Applicants

Graduate and Post-Baccalaureate Application Procedures

Auditors

Returning and Transfer Students

Placement Measures for First-Year GE Courses
 
Programs Leading to Licensure and Credentialing

CSU Immunization Requirements

Undergraduate Student Selection and Denial

Estimated Expenses

Housing

Appeal of Admission Decision

Choosing CSULB

CSULB’s core academic mission is to graduate students with highly valued degrees. California State University, Long Beach is a nationally renowned public research university that values academic excellence, diversity and community engagement.

University Outreach and School Relations
 (UOSR)

UOSR is the university’s student recruitment and guest relations office and the primary contact point for prospective undergraduate students seeking information about CSULB’s admission processes, academic departments, student support programs and campus life.

UOSR provides academic preparedness and application workshops for high school and transfer students, educational awareness programs for elementary and middle school students, and programs that promote student access and alternative admissions. UOSR also offers guided campus tours and specialized campus visits for K-12 students, parents, counselors and community groups.

We encourage prospective students to explore the campus and visit 
our website.
 For more information, call (562) 985-5358, go to 
CSULB Outreach
 or visit the UOSR Office at Brotman Hall, Room 289.

Beach Central

Beach Central is Enrollment Services’ One Stop for all questions students might have for Admissions, Student Records, and Financial Aid, including Scholarships.  

Beach Central Intake

Intake Windows, 1st Floor Courtyard, Brotman Hall

Beach Central Counseling Office

Suite 201, 2nd Floor, Brotman Hall

Directions to Join the Queue for Intake and Appointments: 
Students can access the virtual queue in multiples ways. Find out 
how to join the queue
 today.

Graduate Studies 

Graduate Studies at California State University, Long Beach is committed to academic excellence and inclusivity through our high-quality, affordable graduate programs.  We provide our diverse student body with a graduate education that leads to upward mobility and the opportunity for advancement to fulfill workforce demands, create, innovate, and serve the public good.   

Prospective graduate students seeking information about admission processes for graduate programs, graduate student support programs, and campus life as a graduate student should contact the 
Graduate Advisor from their program of interest.
 
The Graduate Center
 is also available to assist prospective and current graduate students as they navigate graduate studies at The Beach. 

Admissions Procedures and Policies

Requirements for admission to California State University, Long Beach are in accordance with Title 5, Chapter 1, Subchapter 3, of the California Code of Regulations. Complete information is available on the 
California State University website
.

All CSU applications must be submitted online on the
 Cal State Apply website
. An acknowledgment will be sent to the applicant when the online application has been submitted. Applicants to graduate programs may also need to submit additional documentation to Cal State Apply or via another online portal as indicated on the graduate program’s website. 

Importance of Filing Complete, Accurate, and Authentic Application Documents

CSU, Long Beach advises prospective students that they must supply complete and accurate information on the application for admission, residency questionnaire, and financial aid forms. Further, undergraduate applicants must, 
when requested
, submit authentic and official transcripts and/or test scores of all previous academic work attempted. Graduate applicants must, when requested, submit authentic and official transcripts and/or test scores required for admissions to their graduate program. Failure to file complete, accurate, and authentic application documents may result in denial of admission, cancellation of academic credit, suspension, or expulsion (Section 41301, Article 1.1, of Title 5, California Code of Regulations).

Undergraduate Application Procedures

Prospective students applying for part-time or full-time undergraduate programs of study must submit a completed undergraduate application. The $70 nonrefundable application fee should be paid online at the time of application via credit card or PayPal and may not be transferred or used to apply to another term. The applications of persons denied admission to an impacted university may be redirected to another university at no cost, but only if the applicant is CSU eligible.

Readmission

Undergraduate students who break attendance by not enrolling in classes each semester, and who have not filed for educational leave, must reapply for admission. Transcripts of work completed elsewhere during the absence must also be submitted. Undergraduate students who left under academic disqualification must submit a “Reinstatement Petition” with proof of submission of their Cal State Apply application by the published deadline.

Impacted Undergraduate Programs

The CSU designates programs as impacted when more applications from regularly eligible applicants are received in the initial filing period (October and November for fall terms, June for winter terms, August for spring terms, February for summer terms) than can be accommodated. Some programs are impacted at every university on which they are offered; others are impacted only at a few universities. Candidates for admission must meet all the university’s specified supplementary admission criteria if applying to an impacted program or university.

The CSU will announce during the fall filing period those CSUs or programs that are impacted. Detailed information on university and program impaction is available on the 
Access & Impaction Website
.

Each university will communicate supplementary admission criteria for all impacted programs to high schools and community colleges in their application service area and will disseminate this information to the public through appropriate media. 

Applicants must file applications for admission to an impacted undergraduate program during the initial filing period. Applicants who wish to be considered for impacted programs at more than one CSU should file an application at each university for which they seek admission consideration.

Supplementary Admission Criteria for Undergraduate Programs

Each university with impacted programs or admission categories uses supplementary admission criteria in screening applicants. Supplementary criteria may include rank-ordering of first-time, first year applicants based on the CSULB index and GPA, or rank-ordering of transfer applicants based on verification of the Associate Degree for Transfer (ADT) degree, the overall transfer grade point average (GPA), completion of specified prerequisite courses, and a combination of campus-developed criteria. Applicants for first-time, first year admission to impacted campuses or programs may need to have a higher “a-g” GPA. In no case will standardized test scores be utilized in making first-time, first year admission decisions. 

The supplementary admission criteria used by individual CSUs to screen applicants are made available by the universities to all applicants seeking admission to an impacted program. 

Undergraduate Application Initial Filing Periods

Application Initial Filing Periods

Terms

Applications First Accepted

Initial Filing Period

Fall Semester

October 1

October 1 - November 30

Spring Semester

August 1

August 1 - 31

Undergraduate Filing Period Duration

Each non-impacted campus accepts applications until capacities are reached. Many campuses limit undergraduate admission in an enrollment category due to overall enrollment limits. If applying after the initial filing period, consult the campus admission office for current information.

Undergraduate Application Acknowledgment

On time applicants may expect to receive an e-mail acknowledgement from the universities to which they have applied within two to four weeks of filing the application.  The notice may include a request that applicants submit additional records necessary to evaluate academic qualifications. Applicants may be assured of admission if the evaluation of relevant qualifications indicates that applicants meet CSU admission requirements, and in the case of admission impaction, supplemental criteria for admission to an impacted program. Unless specific written approval/confirmation is received, an offer of admission is not transferable to another term or to another university.

Undergraduate Requirement Deadlines

Prior to matriculation (official registration as a CSULB admitted student), students must complete, by published deadlines, admission requirements - including subject requirements, unit minimums, grade-point averages, final transcript and testing requirements. Refer to the 
Enrollment Services website
 for current requirements.

Graduate Applications 

Prospective students applying for graduate programs of study must submit a completed application via Cal State Apply and submit any additional application materials as required by the graduate program. Applicants for graduate programs are strongly advised to 
consult their prospective program’s website
 for admissions criteria and application requirements. The $70 nonrefundable application fee should be paid online at the time of application and may not be transferred or used to apply to another term. CSULB does not offer graduate application fee waivers. For some CSULB graduate programs, applicants can identify a second/alternative choice graduate program to which their application will be forwarded if they are not admitted to their desired/first-choice program.  

Second Baccalaureate Degree Applications 

Any student seeking a second baccalaureate degree after already earning a baccalaureate degree is considered a post-baccalaureate (graduate) student. CSULB accepts applicants for a second B.A./B.S. in science (excluding biological sciences), math, engineering, foreign languages and nursing., Africana studies, American studies, consumer affairs, and philosophy. Candidates for a second baccalaureate degree should apply on the 
Cal State Apply website
. Applicants seeking a second bachelor’s degree must submit the undergraduate graduate application for admission as indicated in Cal State Apply, including those applicants who completed undergraduate degree requirements in the preceding term.  

Applicants seeking a second bachelor’s degree must submit the undergraduate application for admission.   Applicants who completed undergraduate degree requirements in the preceding term are also required to complete and submit an application and the $70 nonrefundable application fee. 

Intrasystem and Intersystem Enrollment Programs

Fully admitted and matriculated students enrolled at any CSU can access courses at other CSUs on a space-available basis unless those universities/programs are impacted. This access is offered without students being required to be formally admitted to the host university and in most cases without paying additional fees. Students should consult their home university academic advisors to determine how such courses may apply to their specific degree programs before enrolling at the host university.

There are two programs for enrollment within the CSU and one for enrollment between CSU and the University of California or California Community Colleges. Additional information about these programs is available from the Office of Enrollment Services.

CSU Fully Online Courses
 - Matriculated students in good standing may request enrollment in one course per term, offered by a CSU host university. Enrollment requests will be granted based on available space, as well as completion of any stated prerequisites. Credit earned at the host university is electronically reported to the student’s home university to be included on the student’s transcript at the home campus.

CSU Visitor Enrollment
 - Matriculated students in good standing enrolled at one CSU may enroll on a space available basis at another CSU for one term. Credit earned at the host campus is reported at the student’s request to the home campus to be included on the student’s transcript at the home campus.

Intersystem Cross Enrollment
 - Matriculated CSU, UC, or community college students may enroll on a “space available” basis for one course per term at another CSU, UC, or community college and request that a transcript of record be sent to the home university.

Concurrent Enrollment Within the CSU

All CSULB undergraduate students wishing to enroll concurrently at CSULB and one of the other 23 CSUs must request permission to do so from the Office of Enrollment Services. Concurrent enrollment within the California State University system is limited to undergraduate students who have completed a minimum of 12 units at CSULB, have a minimum 2.0 grade-point average, are in good academic standing and have paid fees at CSULB for 12 units or more regardless of the total number of units earned at both campuses. No additional fees may be collected after the last day to add classes. Concurrent Enrollment is subject to space availability and registration priority policies at the host campus.

No graduate student may register concurrently at this and any other collegiate institution without advance permission. Permission may be given for concurrent enrollment at CSULB and other institutions if recommended by the program Graduate Advisor and approved by the Dean of the appropriate college. Forms for concurrent enrollment may be obtained from the Graduate Advisor. When such permission is granted, the academic load at CSULB must be reduced accordingly. 

Visitor Enrollment Within the CSU

Undergraduate students enrolled in any CSU campus may apply to transfer temporarily to another CSU campus in Visitor status, if they have (1) completed 12 units at the home campus, (2) have earned at least a 2.0 cumulative GPA at the home campus, (3) are in good academic standing at the home campus, and (4) are eligible to register under continuing status at the home campus.

Graduate students enrolled in any CSU campus may apply to transfer temporarily to another CSU campus in Visitor status, if they (1) completed at least one term at the home campus as a matriculated student or will be enrolled concurrently in such status or (2) were admitted to or are enrolled in an authorized graduate program at the home campus; and (3) were in good standing at the last college attended. 

Approval for visitor enrollment is valid for one term only and is subject to the host campus policies including application deadlines, space availability, and registration priority. Details and 
Visitor Enrollment Applications (pdf)
 are available through the Office of Enrollment Services. Students from other CSU campuses seeking visitor status at CSULB must also contact their home registration office for additional information.

Enrollment of Non-matriculated Students

Applicants not admissible at this time under any of the preceding categories could enroll in another institution, such as a community college, to prepare for admissibility at a future date. Non-matriculated students may be able to avail themselves of programs in the College of Professional and Continuing Education.

Open University - Through Open University, students who are NOT matriculated in CSULB may take regular university classes during spring or fall semesters for academic credit on a “space available” basis with permission of the department chair and the course instructor. Open University enrollment does NOT constitute admission to CSULB. For more information call the College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPaCE) at (562) 985-5561.

Summer Sessions, May Intersession, and Winter Session Students

Summer, May, and Winter Session enrollment is open to all matriculated CSULB students and all non-matriculated students such as prospective students, students from other colleges and universities, and interested individuals from the community. No application or admissions process is required for summer and winter registration.

CSULB does not admit matriculated undergraduate students to start in the Winter, May, or Summer Sessions. Registration in Winter, May, or Summer as a non-matriculated student does not ensure the privilege of enrolling in the fall or spring semester as a matriculated student. To register for Winter, May, or Summer Sessions courses, students should contact the College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPaCE) at (800) 963-2250.

First-Time, First Year Applicants

First-Time, First Year Requirements

Generally, applicants will qualify for consideration for first-time, first year admission if they meet the following requirements:

Have 
graduated 
from high school, have earned a Certificate of General Education Development (GED) or have passed the California High School Proficiency Examination (CHSPE);

Complete the 15-unit comprehensive “a-g” pattern of college preparatory courses;

Have completed, with grades of C- or better, each of the courses in the comprehensive pattern of college preparatory subject requirements also known as the “a-g” pattern (see “Subject Requirements”); and 
	
The CSU will accept “Credit” or “Pass” grades to satisfy “a-g” requirements completed during Winter, Spring, Summer or Fall 2020 terms and during Winter, Spring, or Summer 2021 terms. The CSU expects and assumes that high school Pass (Credit) grades will represent work completed at the C- or higher level. As of Fall 2021 and forward, grades are expected for courses.

Earn a qualifying “a-d” grade point average (GPA) as described below.
	
California residents and graduates of California high schools will be minimally eligible for admission by earning a 2.50 or greater “a-g” GPA.

Non-California residents may be minimally eligible for admission to the CSU by earning a 3.00 greater “a-g” GPA along with other supplemental factors utilized by the individual CSU, including those outlined by impacted universities and programs. 

Each CSU will determine the supplemental factors used with GPA to determine eligibility in these cases and communicate these criteria publicly for prospective students. 

The California State University (CSU) has permanently discontinued the use of ACT/SAT examinations in determining admission eligibility. Submitted test scores by admitted students would be considered only for purposes for student placement in Math or English courses.

Undergraduate Preparation and Eligibility

California State University, Long Beach continues to be the ‘University of Choice’ for a talented and diverse group of California’s best and brightest students. CSULB continues to receive more first-time, first year applicants than can be accommodated. To maintain the academic quality of CSULB academic programs and services, supplemental admissions criteria are applied to first-time, first year applicants. First-time, first year applicants must:

Apply on time. Apply between October 1 and November 30.

While the CSU will not be utilizing standardized testing (SAT and/or ACT) for the purpose of admissions, the SAT or ACT may, however, be used for the purpose of placement in Math and English subjects should a student be admitted to the University. If you have already taken the SAT 1 or ACT we request that your scores be sent to one CSU from the testing agency and all CSU’s will receive them. 

Complete the CSU required 15 unit college preparatory “a-g” subjects prior to graduation from high school.

Perform well - earn the best grades possible (including the senior year).

Pursue a backup plan should they not be admitted to CSULB.

The offer of admission is confirmed when the university verifies that applicants have a qualifiable minimum CSULB index and have completed the comprehensive pattern of college preparatory “a-g” subjects.

CSULB Index

The CSULB index is the combination of the high school cumulative grade point average (GPA), your Math GPA and English GPA. GPA is based on grades earned in courses taken during the final three years of high school. Included in the calculation of GPA are grades earned in all college preparatory “a-g” subject requirements and bonus points for approved honors courses. Up to eight semesters of honors courses taken in the last three years of high school, including up to two approved courses taken in the tenth grade can be accepted. Each unit of A in an honors course will receive a total of 5 points; B, 4 points; and C, 3 points. No points are awarded for F grades. 

The CSULB index can be calculated by multiplying the below formula

(College Preparatory Grade Point Average* X 200) + (500 x HS Math Subject GPA) + (500 x HS English GPA). 

Persons who are California high school graduates (or are a resident of California for tuition purposes) need a minimum index of 3,200 to be considered for admission. 

Persons who neither graduated from a California high school nor are a resident of California for tuition purposes need a minimum CSULB index of 3,500. Graduates of secondary schools in foreign countries must be judged to have academic preparation and abilities equivalent to applicants eligible under this section.

 Subject Requirements for First-Time, First Year Applicants

The CSU requires that first-time, first year applicants complete, with grades of C- or better, a comprehensive pattern of college preparatory study totaling 15 units. A “unit” is one year of study in high school.

2 years of social science, including 1 year of U.S. history, or U.S. history and government

4 years of English

3 years of math (algebra, geometry and intermediate algebra; four years recommended)

2 years of laboratory science (1 biological & 1 physical, both must have laboratory instruction)

2 years in the same foreign language (subject to waiver for applicants demonstrating equivalent competence)

1 year of visual and performing arts: art, dance, drama/theater or music (courses must be completed in the same discipline)

1 year of electives: selected from English, advanced mathematics, social science, history, laboratory science, foreign language, visual and performing arts or other courses approved and included on the UC/CSU “a-g” list

Foreign Language Waiver for First-Time, First Year Applicants

The foreign language subject requirement may be satisfied by applicants who demonstrate competence in a language other than English equivalent to or higher than that expected of students who complete two years of foreign language study. Students should consult with their school counselor or any CSU campus admission or relations with schools office for further information.

Special Admission Consideration for Undergraduate Students with Disabilities

The Special Admission process is a means by which applicants, who may not meet the California State University Long Beach (CSULB) undergraduate admission requirements due to disability, but who are “otherwise qualified,” may request special consideration for admission. The Bob Murphy Access Center Special Admission Committee facilitates this process by consulting with Enrollment Services and providing additional information about each applicant’s special circumstances. It is the Committee’s function to evaluate disability documentation using guidelines established by the California State University (CSU) system. All applicants are reviewed on a case-by-case basis.

For more information, please call (562) 985-4430 or visit our 
BMAC website
.

High School Students - Young Scholars Program

High school students may be considered for enrollment in certain special undergraduate programs if recommended by the principal and the appropriate university department chair and if preparation is equivalent to that required of eligible California high school graduates. Such admission is only for a given specific program and does not constitute a right to continued enrollment. More information is available from the Office of University Outreach and School Relations at (562) 985-5358 or visit our 
CSULB Outreach
.

High School Honors Courses

Grades in up to eight semester courses designated as honors courses in approved subjects and taken in the last two years of high school, receive additional points in grade-point average calculations. Each unit of A in approved courses will receive a total of 5 points; B, 4 points; C, 3 points; D, 1 point; and none for F grades.

Provisional Admission for Undergraduate Programs

California State University, Long Beach may provisionally admit first-time, first year applicants based on their academic preparation through the junior year of high school and planned coursework for the senior year based on self-reported information submitted via Cal State Apply. The university will monitor the final terms of study to ensure that admitted students complete their secondary school studies satisfactorily, including the required college preparatory subjects, and graduate from high school.

Students must submit a final official transcript after graduation to certify that all coursework has been satisfactorily completed. Final official high school transcripts must be received before the deadline set by the university. In accordance with Title V, no student may submit documentation of high school graduation any later than the census date for a student’s first term of CSU enrollment. A CSU may rescind admission decisions, cancel financial aid awards, withdraw housing contracts and cancel any university registration for students found to be ineligible after the final transcript is evaluated. 

Applicants will qualify for regular (non-provisional) admission when the university verifies that they have graduated and received a high school diploma, have completed the comprehensive pattern of college preparatory “a-g” subjects and, if applying to an impacted program or university, have met all supplementary criteria.

The California Promise

The California Promise Program enables a specific number of CSUs to establish pledge programs for entering first-time students who are both interested and able to complete baccalaureate degrees in 4-years. All CSUs have established programs for students with Associate Degrees for Transfer (ADT) from any California Community College to complete their baccalaureate degrees in 2-years. The program is limited to students who are residents of California.

Students who commit to enter either the 4-year or 2-year pledge will be given a priority registration appointment for each state-supported enrollment period and will be provided with routine and thorough academic advisement. In order to remain in the program, students must meet with their advisors as prescribed, develop an enrollment plan and complete 30 semester units or the quarter equivalent within each academic year, including summer. Participating CSUs may stipulate other requirements as well. Interested students entering the CSU should contact university offices or visit the 
California Promise Program website
. 

Transfer Policies of California State University

Most commonly, college-level credits earned from an institution of higher education accredited by a regional/national accrediting agency are accepted for transfer to member universities of the CSU; however, authority for decisions regarding the transfer of undergraduate credits is delegated to each university.

California Community Colleges and other authorized certifying institutions can certify up to 39 semester (58.5 quarter) units of General Education-Breadth (GE-Breadth) or 37 semester (55.5 quarter) units of the Intersegmental General Education Transfer Curriculum (IGETC) for transfer students to fulfill lower-division general education requirements for any CSU prior to transfer.

“Certification” is the official notification from a California Community College or authorized institution that a transfer student has completed courses fulfilling lower-division general education requirements. The CSU GE-Breadth and the Intersegmental General Education Transfer Curriculum (IGETC) certification course lists for particular community colleges can be accessed on the official transfer and articulation system for California’s public colleges and universities, the 
ASSIST website
. 

CSUs may enter into course-to-course or program-to-program articulation agreements with other CSUs, any or all of the California community colleges and other regionally accredited institutions. Established CSU and CCC articulations may be found on the 
ASSIST website
. Students may be permitted to transfer no more than 70 semester (105 quarter) units to a CSU from an institution which does not offer bachelor’s degrees or their equivalents, for example, community colleges. Given the university’s 30-semester (45-quarter) unit residency requirement, no more than 90 semester (135 quarter) units may be transferred into the university from all sources.

Undergraduate Transfer Requirements

Applicants who have completed fewer than 60 transferable semester college units (fewer than 90 quarter units) are considered lower-division transfer students. Applicants who have completed 60 or more transferable semester college units (90 or more quarter units) are considered upper-division transfer students. Applicants who complete college units during high school or through the summer immediately following high school graduation are considered first-time, first year students and must meet the CSU minimum eligibility requirements for first-time, first year admission. Transferable courses are those designated for baccalaureate credit by the college or University offering the courses and accepted as such by the university to which the applicant seeks admission.

For information on graduate transfer requirements, please review 
both CSULB university and graduate program-specific policies
. 

Lower-Division Transfer Requirements

Due to increased enrollment demands, some CSUs do not admit lower-division transfer applicants. CSULB does not admit lower division transfer students, except highly qualified nurses.

Students are advised to check the respective university they are interested in to see if lower division transfer applications are accepted.

An applicant who completes fewer than 60 semester (90 quarter) units of college credit is considered a lower-division transfer student. Due to enrollment pressures, somes CSUs do not admit lower-division transfers.

Having fewer than 60 semester (90 quarter) units at the point of transfer may affect eligibility for registration priority at a CSU campus and may affect the student’s financial aid status.

California resident transfer applicants with fewer than 60 semester or 90 quarter units must:

Have a cumulative grade point average of 2.0 (C) or better in all transferable units attempted;

Have completed, with a grade of C- or better, a course in written communication and a course in mathematics or quantitative reasoning at a level satisfying CSU General Education Breadth Area A2 and B4 requirements, respectively;

Be in good standing at the last institution attended; and

Meet any one of the following eligibility standards:

Transfer Based on Current Admission Criteria

The applicant meets the first-time, first year admission requirements in effect for the term for which the application is filed; - OR -

Transfer Based on High School Eligibility

The applicant was eligible as a first-time, first year student at the time of high school graduation and has been in continuous attendance in an accredited college since high school graduation;

- OR - 
Transfer Based on Making Up Missing Subjects

The applicant had a qualifying CSULB index at the time of high school graduation (combination of GPA and test scores if needed), has made up any missing college preparatory subject requirements with a grade of C- or better, and has been in continuous attendance in an accredited college since high school graduation.

One baccalaureate-level course of at least 3 semester (4 quarter) units is usually considered equivalent to one year of high school study.

(Note: Some CSUs may require lower-division transfer students to complete specific college coursework, for example the four basic skill courses in the General Education pattern, as part of their admission criteria.)

Upper-Division Transfer Requirements for Undergraduates

Generally, applicants will qualify for consideration for upper-division transfer admission if they meet all of the following requirements:

Cumulative grade point average of at least 2.0 in all transferable units attempted;

In good standing at the last college or university attended; and

Completed at least sixty (60) transferable semester (90 quarter) units of college level coursework with a grade point average of 2.0 or higher and a grade of C- or better in each course used to meet the CSU general education requirements in written communication, oral communication, critical thinking, and quantitative reasoning, e.g. mathematics.

The 60 units must include at least 30 units of courses that meet CSU general education requirements, including all of the general education requirements in communication in the English language (both oral and written) and critical thinking and the requirement in mathematics/quantitative reasoning (usually 3 semester units) OR the Intersegmental General Education Transfer Curriculum (IGETC) requirements in English communication and mathematical concepts and quantitative reasoning.

Associate Degrees for Transfer (ADT)

The Associate in Arts for Transfer (AA-T) and the Associate in Science for Transfer (AS-T) degrees offered at the California Community Colleges (CCC) are designed to provide a California community college student the optimum transfer preparation and a clear admission pathway to the CSU degree majors.

CCC students who earn an Associate Degree for Transfer (AA-T or AS-T) are guaranteed admission with junior standing to a CSU and given priority admission consideration over other transfer applicants when applying to a local CSU or non-impacted CSU program. Please note that students in a similar AA-T or AS-T major are not guaranteed admission to a particular university of the CSU. If, however, they meet the requirements for the program and are not admitted to CSULB, their application will be redirected to another CSU with capacity to offer admission. AA-T or AS-T admission applicants are given limited priority consideration based on their eligibility ranking to an impacted university/program or to CSUs/programs that have been deemed similar to the degree completed at the community college. Students who have completed an AA-T/AS-T in a program deemed similar to a CSU major are able to complete remaining requirements for graduation within 60 semester (90 quarter) units. It is the responsibility of the student who has earned an AA-T/AS-T to provide documentation of the degree to the CSU. For the admissions process, students are responsible for working with their community college counselors to complete verification of AA-T or AS-T degree progress through the e-Verify process within the established university deadlines to ensure the AA-T or AS-T will be completed by the required term for admissions purposes.

International Student Applicants

The International Admission Office at the Center for International Education assists academically eligible international students to apply for admission to the university, advises them of CSULB’s financial, immigration and English language requirements and evaluates transfer credits. Throughout the students’ attendance, the Office of International Students and Scholars staff is involved in advisement on immigration issues related to academics, practical training and graduation among many other areas. Students are also counseled regarding their field of study requirements, which vary at both the undergraduate and graduate levels.

International (Foreign) Admission Requirements

The CSU must assess the academic preparation of foreign students. For this purpose, “foreign students” include those who hold U.S. temporary visas as students, exchange visitors, or in other nonimmigrant classifications. Application requests and questions should be directed to International Admission (
cie-admission@csulb.edu
), located in the Center for International Education (FND-180). The CSU uses separate requirements and application filing dates in the admission of international students. Verification of English proficiency (see the section on the English Language Requirement for undergraduate applicants) and academic performance are each important considerations for admission. International students need to complete the International application on the 
Cal State Apply website
. The following documents are required:

Submit an application 
via Cal State Apply
;

Pay the non-refundable $70.00 application processing fee;

Affidavit of support from financial sponsor;

Bank statement/letter from financial sponsor;

Proof of acceptable English proficiency;

Official academic documents and certified English translations;

Once all the required documents are submitted, eligibility for admission is determined based on English proficiency and academic history, as well as other considerations.

Graduate applications are forwarded to the graduate program for review. Once admitted, international students receive pre‑arrival, arrival, and orientation information, and the appropriate immigration form with instructions on how to legally enter and/or remain in the U.S. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) requires that international students be aware of and follow DHS regulations to remain in legal status in the U.S. for the duration of their academic program. International students on “F” and “J” visas must be enrolled as full-time students. International students cannot obtain F-1 Visas for non-degree programs offered via CPaCE. Courses taken through the College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPaCE) at CSULB or courses taken concurrently at other colleges may only count toward fulltime status when approved in advance of course registration by the Center for International Education. Questions about DHS policies may be directed to the Center for International Education. 

English Language Requirement

All undergraduate applicants, whose native language is not English and who have not attended schools at the secondary level or above for at least three years full time where English is the principal language of instruction, must present a minimum score (Paper: 500, iBT: 61) unless the applicant:

Has proof of at least three years attendance at a secondary level educational institution in a country where English was the principal language of instruction.* CSULB interprets “where English was the principal language of instruction” to mean that a school is located in a country where English is the native language (the daily medium of communication of the majority of residents is English), and that the students receive academic instruction in all subjects (except foreign language courses) at all levels of education in English, or 

Completed at least 60 transferable units from accredited U.S. community colleges and/or universities and earned a grade of A, B, or C in English 100 or its equivalent*, or

Successfully completed Level 4 of CSULB’s American Language Institute’s Intensive English Language Program.*

presents a minimum score of 5.5 in each sub-section on the International English Language Testing System (IELTS).

Presents a minimum score of 43 on the Pearson Test of English.

Presents a minimum score of Pre-1 on the EIKEN Test.

Presents a minimum score of 95 for Undergraduates on the Duolingo English Test.

Undergraduate applicants who are U.S. Citizens or Permanent Residents of the U.S. and who are subject to the above TOEFL requirement may submit results from the English Language Proficiency Test (ELPT) in lieu of TOEFL. A score of 954 on the ELPT is required of such applicants. 

Some majors and colleges may require higher scores. For example, applicants applying for Film and Electronic Arts, which requires a 550 TOEFL score, and Journalism, which requires a 600 TOEFL score, will not be waived from the TOEFL requirement. 

*For this exemption to remain valid, once having met the exemption, the student must not have left the U.S.A. for more than two years to reside or study in a country where English is not the predominant language of business, education and day-to-day societal functions.

All graduate and post-baccalaureate applicants, regardless of citizenship, whose native language is not English and whose preparatory education was principally in a language other than English, must demonstrate competence in English. Those who do not possess a bachelor’s degree from a postsecondary institution where English is the principal language of instruction must receive a minimum score from one of the required English demonstration tests stated on the International Admissions and their prospective graduate program’s website (which ever score is higher) unless the applicant: 

Submits proof of having obtained a bachelor’s degree from an accredited post-secondary institution where English was the principal language of instruction. CSULB interprets “where English is the principal language of instruction” to mean that a school is located in a country where English is the native language (the daily medium of communication of the majority of residents is English), and the applicant received academic instruction in all subjects (except foreign language courses) at all levels of education in English, or 

Notification from CSULB’s American Language Institute that the applicant has successfully completed level 6 of the American Language Institute Program.  

All graduate applicants shall consult both the 
Center for International Education
 and their prospective graduate program’s website for details. 

Insurance Requirement

Effective August 1, 1995, as a condition of receiving an I-20 or DS-2019 form, all F-1 and J-1 visa applicants must agree to obtain and maintain health insurance as a condition of registration and continued enrollment in the California State University. Such insurance must be in amounts as specified by the United States Department of State and NAFSA: Association of International Educators. The university President or designee will determine which insurance policies meet these criteria. Further information may be obtained from the Center for International Education, FND-180, (562) 985-4106.

Special Consideration for Undergraduate Admissions

A very limited number of applicants who do not meet regular undergraduate admission requirements may be considered by the University through an alternate screening process. As part of this review, undergraduate admission may be offered based on institutional interests, special talents, or special circumstances. The authority to grant special admission is delegated to the Associate Vice President for Enrollment Services based on the recommendations of the appropriate university committees.

Graduate and Post-Baccalaureate Application Procedures

All graduate and post-baccalaureate applicants (i.e., doctorate, Ph.D., master’s degree, educational credentials certificates and, where permitted, holders of baccalaureate degrees interested in taking courses for personal or professional growth) must complete a graduate application as described in the graduate and post-baccalaureate admission materials on the 
Cal State Apply website
 and the prospective programs’ website. When applying to certain CSULB graduate programs, Cal State Apply may ask applicants if they would like to identify a second/alternative graduate program.  If applicants choose a second/alternative program and if they are not admitted to their primary/first choice program, then their application will automatically be forwarded to the second/alternative for admissions consideration at no additional cost.

To be assured of consideration by more than one campus, it is necessary to submit separate applications (including fees) to each. All CSU applications must be submitted online via the 
Cal State Apply website
. An acknowledgment will be sent to the applicant when the online application has been submitted.

GRADUATE APPLICATION FILING PERIODS 

Terms

Applications May be Submitted Starting on:

Fall

October 1

Winter

June 1

Spring

August 1

Summer

(Few Programs admit for Summer.)

February 1

On-time applicants may expect to receive an acknowledgment from the program to which they have applied within two to four weeks of the application deadline. The notice may also include a request for additional information or missing materials. .  

Graduate and Post-Baccalaureate Admission Requirements 

Graduate and post-baccalaureate applicants may apply for a degree program, a credential or certificate, or where approved, to take courses with no program objective. Depending on the objective, the CSU will consider an application for admission as follows:

General Requirements - The minimum requirements for admission to graduate and post- baccalaureate studies at a CSU are in accordance with university regulations as well as Title 5, Chapter 1, Subchapter 3 of the California Code of Regulations.

Specifically, a student shall at the time of enrollment:
	
Have completed a four-year college course of study and hold an acceptable baccalaureate degree from an institution accredited by a regional accrediting association, or shall have completed equivalent academic preparation as determined by appropriate university authorities;

Be in good academic standing at the last college or university attended;

Have earned a grade point average of at least 2.5 on the last degree completed by the candidate or have attained a grade point average of at least 2.5 (A=4.0) in the last 60 semester (90 quarter) units attempted; and

Satisfactorily meet the professional, personal, scholastic, and other standards for graduate study, including qualifying examinations, as appropriate university authorities may prescribe. In unusual circumstances, a university may make exceptions to these criteria.

Applicants who meet the minimum requirements for graduate and post-baccalaureate studies may be considered for admission in one of the four following categories:
	
Graduate Classified - To pursue a graduate degree, applicants are required to fulfill all the professional, personal, scholastic, and other standards, including qualifying examinations, prescribed by the university; or

Graduate Conditionally Classified - Applicants may be admitted to a graduate degree program in this category if, in the opinion of appropriate university authority, deficiencies may be remedied by additional preparation; or

Post-Baccalaureate Classified (e.g. admission to an education credential program) - Persons wishing to enroll in a credential or certificate program will be required to satisfy additional professional, personal, scholastic, and other standards, including qualifying examinations, prescribed by the university; or

Post-Baccalaureate Unclassified - To enroll in undergraduate courses as preparation for advanced degree programs or to enroll in graduate courses for professional or personal growth, applicants must be admitted as post- baccalaureate unclassified students. By meeting the general requirements, applicants are eligible for admission as post-baccalaureate unclassified students. Admission in this status does not constitute admission to, or assurance of consideration for admission to, any graduate degree or credential program. (Most CSUs do not offer admission to unclassified postbaccalaureate students). 

(These and other CSU admi
ssion requirements are subject to change as policies are revised and laws are amended. The CSU website and the CSU admission portal are good sources for the most up-to-date information.)
 
Special Action 

In rare and compelling circumstances, an applicant who doesn’t qualify for admission under the previous provisions may be admitted by special action if, on recommendation of the appropriate faculty of the department/college concerned and in the judgment of the Dean of Graduate Studies or designee, that the applicant possesses sufficient academic, professional, and other potential pertinent to her/his educational objectives to merit such action, as shown through acceptable evidence (i.e., aptitude scores, recent academic performance, and experiential background). 

Admission to a Program as a Post-Baccalaureate/Graduate Student 

To pursue a credential, certificate, master’s, or doctoral degree, applicants must be accepted by the department or college offering the program.  Following review of the application in Enrollment Services to confirm CSU eligibility, the department or college will determine whether an applicant meets its requirements for admission to its program. Departments or colleges that receive more applications from qualified applicants than the number of spaces they have available will admit students in priority order based on the strength of candidates’ qualifications.  Some programs may elect to place otherwise qualified applicants on a waitlist for reconsideration if space becomes available. Waitlisted applicants must indicate their intent to remain on the list.  

An applicant who is admissible to the University but who does not meet all program requirements for admission may be accepted as a conditionally classified graduate student by the department or college offering the program, subject to the provision that all remaining admission requirements of the program must then be fulfilled after enrollment.   

An applicant who is admissible to the University but denied admission to the program may be considered for and admitted to their second/alternative program, only if they identified their second/alternative program in Cal State Apply when they applied to their primary/first choice program.

Graduate Standing - Conditionally Classified 

Admission to Conditionally Classified Standing: Applicants who show promise of success but who need prerequisite preparation which, in the opinion of the program faculty, can be met by specified additional preparation, including qualifying examinations, may be admitted with a Graduation Standing of “Conditionally Classified” on a space available basis. The academic unit granting the degree must notify the applicant of the specific preparation required, including minimum grades and the time frame for completion, within two weeks of the University offer of admission. 

Prerequisites should normally be completed in two semesters. Requests to allow a student longer than two semesters must be approved in advance by the Dean of Graduate Studies or designee. 

Academic unit(s) granting the degree(s) are required to monitor the progress of students in “Conditionally Classified” status each term. Upon the successful completion of the identified preparation, the academic unit granting the degree must notify Enrollment Services and the student that they have earned a Graduate Standing of “Classified.” If the student fails to complete the required preparation within the time frame established, the student may be immediately dismissed from the program. The academic unit granting the degree may grant additional time based on special circumstances with the approval of the Dean of Graduate Studies or designee. The academic unit granting the degree must notify the student and Enrollment Services of the decision to dismiss for failure to achieve “Classified Standing” in a timely manner.  

Graduate Standing - Classified 

Admission to Classified Standing: Applicants who satisfactorily meet the professional, personal, scholastic, and other standards for admission to the graduate degree curriculum, including qualifying examinations, are admitted with a Graduate Standing of “Classified.” 

Postbaccalaureate Standing - Classified 

In this status a student is eligible to enroll in a credential or certificate program, provided that such additional professional, personal, scholastic, and other standards, including qualifying examinations, as may be prescribed for the particular credential or certificate program by the appropriate campus authority, are satisfied. 

The
 CSU website
 and the 
admissions portal
 are good sources for the most up-to-date information. 

For detailed information on admissions for specific master’s and doctoral degrees, please review CSULB policies and program-specific websites. 

Auditors

Persons who have not been accepted by the University for the semester they wish to attend may request permission to audit courses through College of Professional and Continuing Education (CPaCE).

Persons who have been accepted by the University may audit courses. See the regulation under “Grades and Administrative Symbols.” The deadline to declare an “audit” grade option is the end of the third week of instruction. Students must follow the instructions in the 
Schedule of Classes
 to request a course as an “audit” grading option. At the end of the semester, the instructor will assign an “audit” grade to the official grade sheet forwarded to the Office of Enrollment Services for recording. Courses taken for audit may be repeated in subsequent terms for credit.

Courses successfully audited are listed on the student’s academic record but carry no credit or grade points.

Returning and Transfer Students

Returning graduate and undergraduate students (those who did not maintain continuous enrollment) must reapply to the University under the same conditions and deadlines as all other applicants. Returning graduate students shall refer to the catalog on graduate degree information for additional details.

Undergraduate students who have not maintained continuous attendance status shall be subject to the General Education requirements in effect at the time of their reentry to the university, with the following exceptions:

Previous CSULB undergraduate students who were under earlier General Education requirements and who - before breaking continuous attendance - needed no more than three additional courses to complete the entire General Education requirement shall be allowed to complete the General Education requirement in effect at the time of the previous attendance. However, all students must complete at least 9 units of upper division General Education courses, of which 6 must be Capstone courses. 

Previous CSULB undergraduate students who were under the earlier General Education requirements and who before breaking continuous attendance completed one or more upper-division GE courses shall be required to complete additional Capstone courses as needed to complete the total of 9 upper-division units. At least two of the courses in the overall program must be Capstone courses.

Undergraduate transfer students who enter CSULB with full GE certification from a California Community College must complete both the Human Diversity in the U.S. and the Global Issues requirements if these requirements were not met through transfer, but these students need not complete any other GE courses except the Capstone, which cannot be met through transfer from a community college. Transfer students who enter CSULB without full GE certification from a California Community College must complete the CSULB General Education requirements.

Hardship Petitions for Undergraduate Applicants

The university has established procedures for consideration of qualified undergraduate applicants who would be faced with extreme hardship if not admitted. Petitioners should submit an admissions appeal to the CSULB Office of Enrollment Services regarding specific policies governing hardship admission. (See Admissions Procedures and Policies at the beginning of this section. See also 
the First-Time, First Year Admission Appeals Website
 and 
the Transfer Admissions Appeals Website
.)

Placement Measures for First-Year GE Written Communication and Mathematics/Quantitative Reasoning Courses 

First-time, first-year student skills assessment and placement for general education written communication and mathematics/quantitative reasoning shall be based on systemwide skills assessment standards that include the Early Assessment Program/ Smarter Balanced Achievement Levels, ACT scores and/or SAT scores, high school coursework, high school GPA and math GPA. 

Skills assessments are not a condition for admission to the CSU; they are a condition of enrollment. 

These skills assessments are designed to inform entering first-time, first-year students of placement in appropriate baccalaureate-level courses based on their skills and needs. 

First-time, first-year students in need of support as determined by the skills assessment will be placed in supported instruction. Supported instruction is designed to assist students in credit bearing courses. Students may also be required to participate in the Supportive Pathways for First-Year Students Program.

The Supportive Pathways for First-Year Students Programs offers pathways and academic and social support that align with each incoming student’s needs. The program’s goal is to ensure that first time students successfully complete the General Education (GE) written communication (A2) and math/quantitative reasoning (B4) requirements within their first year.

Assessments and Placement for GE Written Communications Has Fulfilled the GE Subarea A2 English
 Requirement
.

The student has met the requirement via completion of one of the following:

Advanced Placement (AP) Test

3 or above: AP Language and Composition

3 or above: AP Composition and Literature

College Transfer Coursework

Completed approved college course that satisfies CSU GE Area A2 (written communication) with a grade of C- or better

Placement in a GE Subarea A2 English Course

The student has met examination standards and/or multiple measures- informed standards via one of the criteria below:

English CAASPP/EAP Test:

Standard Exceeded

Standard Met and completed 12th grade approved year-long English course (CSU ERWC, AP, Weighted Honors English) with grade of C- or better

SAT Evidence-Based Reading and Writing Test:

550 or above

510 - 540 and completed 12th grade approved year-long English course (CSU ERWC, AP, Weighted Honors English) with grade of C- or better English

ACT Test:

22 or higher

19-21 and completed 12th grade approved year-long English course (CSU ERWC, AP, Weighted Honors English) with grade of C- or better

High School Courses and GPA:

Weighted GPA 3.3 or above

GPA 3.0 or above and completed approved 12 grade year-long English course (AP, CSU ERWC, Weighted Honors English)

GPA 3.0 or above and completed Honors English

GPA 3.0 or above and 5 or more years of high school English

Placement in a Supported GE Subarea A2
 English Course

The student has met examination standards and/or multiple measures- informed standards via one of the criteria below:

SAT Evidence-Based Reading and Writing Test:

510 - 540 and 4 or more years of high school English

ACT Test:

19-21 and 4 or more years of high school English

High School Courses and GPA:

Weighted GPA 3.0 or above and 4 or more years of high school English

Placement in a Supported GE Subarea A2 English Course and Participation in the 
Supportive Pathways for First-Year Students Program

Based on multiple measures evaluation, student needs additional academic support including participation in the Supportive Pathways for First Year Students Program. Visit the 
CSU Student Success website
 to learn about this program.

Assessments and Placement for GE Mathematics/Quantitative Reasoning: Non-
Math Intensive Majors (Algebra and Statistics Disciplines, Non-STEM and Undecided Majors) Has Fulfilled the GE Subarea B4 Math/Quantitative Reasoning Requirement

The student has met the requirement via completion of one of the following:

Advanced Placeme
nt (AP) Test:

3 or above: Calculus AB

3 or above on AP Calculus BC

3 or above on AP Statistics

3 or above on AP Computer Science Principles

International Baccalaureate (IB) Test:

4 or above on Math Higher Level (HL)

College Level 
Examination Program (CLEP):

50 or above on: Calculus, College Algebra, College Algebra-Trigonometry, Pre-Calculus or Trigonometry

College Transfer Coursework:

Completed math/quantitative reasoning college course with a C- or better that satisfies CSU GE Area B4

Placement in a GE Subarea B4 Math/Quantitative Reasoning Requirement

The student has met examination standards and/or multiple measures-informed standards via one of the following criteria:

CAASPP/EAP Math Exam:

Standard Exceeded

Standard Met and completed 12th grade approved year-long math course beyond Algebra 2 with a C- or better

Standard Met and 4 or more years of high school math or quantitative reasoning

SAT Math Test:

570 or above

520 - 560 and completed 12th grade approved year-long math course beyond Algebra 2 with a C- or better

ACT Math Test:

23 or above

20-22 and completed 12th grade approved year-long math course beyond Algebra 2 with a C- or better

High School Courses and GPA:

Weighted math GPA 3.0 or above and completed 12th grade approved year-long math course beyond Algebra 2 with a C- or better

Weighted math GPA 3.0 or above and 5 or more years of high school math or quantitative reasoning

Weighted high school GPA 3.7 or above

Weighted high school GPA 3.5 or above and 4 or more years of high school math or quantitative reasoning

Placement in a Supported GE 
Sub-area B4 Math/Quantitative Reasoning Requirement

The student has met examination standards and/or multiple measures- informed standards via one of the criteria below:

High School GPA:

Weighted math GPA 3.3 or above

Weighted high school GPA 3.0 or above

Placement in a Supported GE 
Sub-area B4 Math/ Quantitative Reasoning Requirement and Participation in the Supportive Pathways for First-Year Students Program Required

Based on multiple measures evaluation, student needs additional academic support including participation in the Supportive Pathways for First-Year Students Program. Visit the 
CSU Student Success website
 to learn about this program.

Assessments and Placement for GE Mathematics/Quantitative Reasoning: Pre- STEM/STEM and Other Math-
Intensive Majors

Has Fulfilled the GE 
Sub-area B4 Math/Quantitative Reasoning Requirement

The student has met the requirement via completion of one of the following:

Advanced Placement (AP) Test:

3 or above on AP Calculus AB

3 or above on AP Calculus BC

3 or above on AP Statistics

3 or above on AP Computer Science Principles

International Baccalaureate (IB) Test:

4 or above on Math Higher Level (HL)

College Level Examination Program (CLEP):

50 or above on: Calculus, College Algebra, College Algebra-Trigonometry, Pre-Calculus or Trigonometry

College Transfer Coursework:

Completed math/quantitative reasoning college course with a C- or better that satisfies CSU GE Area B4

Placement in a GE Subarea B4 Math/Quantitative Reasoning Requirement

The student has met examination standards and/or multiple measures- informed standards via one of the criteria below:

CAASPP/EAP Math Exam:

Standard Exceeded

Standard Met and completed 12th grade approved year-long math course beyond Algebra 2 with a C- or better

SAT Math Test:

570 or above

520 - 560 and completed 12th grade approved year-long math course beyond Algebra 2 with a C- or better

ACT 
Math Test:

23 or above

20-22 and completed 12th grade approved year-long math course beyond Algebra 2 with a C- or better

High School Courses and GPA:

Weighted math GPA 3.5 or above and completed 12th grade approved year-long math course beyond Algebra 2 with a grade of C- or better

Weighted math GPA 3.5 or above and 5 or more years of high school math or quantitative reasoning

Weighted high school GPA 3.7 or above 

Placement in a Supported GE Subarea B4 Math/ Quantitative Reasoning 
Requirement

The student has met examination standards and/or multiple measures- informed standards via the criteria below:

High School Math GPA:

Weighted math GPA 3.3 or above

Placement in a Supported GE Subarea B4 Math/ Quantitative Reasoning Require
ment and Participation in the 
Supportive Pathways for First-Year Students Program Required

Based on multiple measures evaluation, student needs additional academic support including participation in the Supportive Pathways for First Year Students Program. Visit the 
CSU Student Success website
 to learn about this program.

The goal of the Supportive Pathways for First-Year Students Program (SPFY) is to Ensure that first-time students successfully complete the General Education (GE) written communication (A2) and math/quantitative reasoning (B4) requirements within their first year

Better prepare students in written composition and mathematics/quantitative reasoning before the fall term of the first year, improving students’ chances of successful completion of a baccalaureate degree.

For general information about Supportive Pathways for First-Year Students Program (SPFYP), visit the 
CSU Supportive Pathways website
. Students are encouraged to visit the university website for SPFYP information once admitted.

Eligible financial aid applicants with an Estimated Family Contribution (EFC) of $6,000 or less will be eligible for waiver of the per unit SPFY fee. For more information on assessments, placements and the Supportive Pathways for First Year Students Program, please visit the 
CSU Student Success website
.

Adult Students
 
As an alternative to regular admission criteria, an applicant who is 25 years of age or older may be considered for admission as an adult student if they meet all of the following conditions:

Possesses a high school diploma (or has established equivalence through either the General Educational Development or California High School Proficiency Examinations).

Has not been enrolled in college as a full-time student for more than one term during the past five years. 

If there has been any college attendance in the last five years, has earned a 2.00 GPA or better in all college work attempted. 

Consideration will be based upon a judgment as to whether the applicant is as likely to succeed as a regularly admitted first-time, first-year or transfer student and will include an assessment of basic skills in the English language and mathematical computation.

Graduation Requirement in Writing Proficiency
 
All undergraduate students must demonstrate competency in writing skills as a requirement for graduation. Information on currently available ways to meet this graduation requirement may be obtained from
 the CSULB GWAR Website.

Advanced Placement Credit

California State University, Long Beach grants credit toward its undergraduate degrees for successful completion of examinations of the Advanced Placement (AP) Program of the College Board. Students who present scores of three or better will be granted up to six semester units (nine quarter units) of college credit for each AP course. Refer to the Advanced Placement Examination Credit table in the Academic Information section of this Catalog.

More specific information is available from the Office of Enrollment Services at (562) 985-5471 or a student’s major department.

International Baccalaureate Credit

Undergraduate students with scores of 5 or higher (4 in certain subjects) in International Baccalaureate Higher Level courses will be awarded baccalaureate credit of 4 to 10 units, depending on course equivalency. Applicants to CSULB who wish to obtain lower-division course credit for completed International Baccalaureate Higher Level examinations must submit an official IB transcript. Course equivalency for Higher Level examinations completed with satisfactory scores is listed in the International Baccalaureate Examination Credit table in the Academic Information section of this catalog.

For questions or information, please call the Office of Enrollment Service at (562) 985-5471 or consult the department.

Programs Leading to Licensure and Credentialing

Admission into programs leading to licensure and credentialing does not guarantee that students will obtain a license or credential. Licensure and credentialing requirements are set by agencies not controlled by or affiliated with the CSU and can change at any time. For example, licensure or credentialing requirements can include evidence of the right to work in the United States (e.g., social security number or taxpayer identification number) or successfully passing a criminal background check. Students are responsible for determining whether they can meet licensure or credentialing requirements. The CSU will not refund tuition, fees, or associated costs to students who determine after admission that they cannot meet licensure or credentialing requirements. Information concerning licensure and credentialing requirements are available from Academic Affairs, (562) 985-4128. 

The California State University has not determined whether its programs meet other states’ educational or professional requirements for licensure and certification. Students enrolled in a California State University program planning to pursue licensure or certification in other states are responsible for determining whether they will meet their state’s requirements for licensure or certification. This disclosure is made pursuant to 34 CFR §668.43(a)(5)(v)(C).    

CSU Immunization Requirements

Entering CSU students are required to present proof of the following immunizations to the CSU they will be attending before the beginning of their first term of enrollment.

Measles, Mumps, and Rubella (MMR): Two (2) doses with first dose on or after 1st birthday; OR positive titer (laboratory evidence of immunity to disease).

Hepatitis B (Hep B):
 All new students who will be 18 years of age or younger at the start of their first term at a CSU must provide proof of full immunization against Hepatitis B before enrolling. Full immunization against Hepatitis B consists of three timed doses of vaccine over a minimum 4 to 6 months period. If you need further details, please consult Student Health Services. 

Varicella (Chickenpox)
: Two (2) doses with first dose on or after 1st birthday; OR positive titer (laboratory evidence of immunity to disease) prior to enrollment.

Tetanus, Diphtheria, Pertussis (Tdap)
: One (1) dose after age 7.

Meningococcal conjugate (Serogroups A, C, Y, & W-135): 
One (1) dose on or after 16 for all students and age 21 or younger.

Tuberculosis Screening/Risk Assessment
: All incoming students must complete a Tuberculosis risk questionnaire. Incoming students who are at higher risk
* 
for TB infection, as indicated by answering “yes” to any of the screening questions, should undergo either skin of blood testing for TB infection within one year of CSU entry.

*Higher risk include travel or living in South or Central America, Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe, and the Middle East; prior positive TB test; or exposure to someone with active TB disease.

These are 
not
 admission requirements but are required of students as conditions of enrollment in CSU.

References: CSU Executive Order No. 803 Immunization

Requirements / California Assembly Bill 1107.

Measles/Rubella and Hepatitis B clearance are obtained by presenting to Student Health Services 1) a medical immunization record showing dates of shots given, or 2) a record of blood tests showing immunity, or 3) receiving immunization(s), or 4) making a request for medical or personal religious exemption. Students may receive immunizations from their health care provider, HMO, or Public Health Department at low cost. Immunizations may also be obtained at Student Health Services for a minimal charge for Measles and Rubella (German Measles) and vaccine Hepatitis B. Acceptable proof may be by records from high school, private health care providers, and local health departments.

Please note that clinical programs (e.g., speech language pathology, nursing, etc.) at CSULB cannot guarantee clinical placements to unvaccinated students; few clinical experiences accept unvaccinated students. Clinical experiences/placements are required for clinical degrees and licensing examinations. 

For details on immunization requirements and where to obtain vaccines, call Student Health Services, visit our 
CSULB Student Health Services website
 or go to the Student Health Center at the corner of Beach Drive and Merriam Way.

Undergraduate Student Selection and Denial

The University reserves the right to select its students and deny admission to the University or any of its programs as the University, in its sole discretion, determines the appropriate criteria based on an applicant’s suitability and the best interests of the University.

Estimated  Undergraduate Expenses

Students should be prepared to meet expenses for fees within 30 days of registration. Books should be purchased when classes begin. Other expenses are ongoing and must be anticipated monthly and included in the total cost of attendance. Please review the CSULB Financial Aid and Scholarships section 
on expected undergraduate costs
 and reach out to their teams for additional information. 

Housing

Living on campus is the ultimate way for students to enhance their college experience. Approximately 2,700 new and continuing students live in three residential villages that support students personally, socially, and academically. The application period for new residents is typically mid-March - May 1 of each year.  Space is limited and housing is granted on a first-come, first-served basis.  At this time, we do not offer graduate-only, married, or family housing.

For more information about on and off-campus housing, please call (562) 985-4187, visit our 
CSULB Housing website
, or visit the Housing Office in the Temporary Buildings adjacent to Parking Lot G4.

Appeal of Undergraduate Admission Decision

Section 89030.7 of the California Education Code requires that the CSU establishes specific requirements for appeal procedures for a denial of admission for Undergraduate students. Each CSU must publish appeal procedures for applicants denied admission to the University. The procedure is limited to addressing university decisions to deny an applicant admission to the University.

Denials of admission are made only after an extensive review of academic qualifications and weighing those qualifications against the competitive nature of our applicant pool; therefore, these decisions are rarely overturned, and appeals are considered only for extraordinary reasons beyond the control of the applicant. We review every application for maximum consideration.  

For an appeal to have merit, it must contain new, serious and compelling information that clearly shows you to be academically stronger than you had been earlier evidenced. Mistakes made on the application are not basis for an appeal or the reversal of a decision. Additionally, the prospect of a stronger academic performance in a current term is not sufficient basis for an appeal. 

In order for an applicant to submit an appeal, they must: 

Complete the 
Admissions Appeal Process form
 requesting we reconsider your application. The form must come from you (the applicant) and be submitted no later 15 days after receipt of your original admissions decision. Appeals submitted via hard-copy letter, email or fax are not acceptable, and will not be considered. 

Your submission must clearly outline your reason for appealing the decision and the information you present should be new and compelling.  

You must include supporting documentation. 

Letters of recommendation and personal statements or essays are not considered in the admissions process at CSULB and cannot be submitted as part of your appeal. 

You may not appeal the decision to be placed on the Wait List. 

The applicant will be notified by email within 4 to 6 weeks in response to the appeal request. Only one appeal may be submitted for an academic term, so the appeal packet must be clear and compelling when submitted. 

Appeal of Graduate Admission Decision 

Denials of admission are made only after an extensive review of academic qualifications, the weighing of those qualifications against the competitive nature of the applicant pool, and  the recommendation of the department. Therefore, these decisions are rarely overturned and are considered only for extraordinary reasons beyond the control of the applicant. We review every application for maximum consideration. Final admissions decisions are at the purview of the program faculty.    

For an appeal to be considered, all relevant documentation that contains new, serious, and/or compelling information or demonstrates that an administrative error has taken place must be included with the appeal. Applicants cannot appeal their position on a waitlist or being waitlisted. Applicants cannot appeal based on academic performance in a current, in progress, or future term. Mistakes made by the applicant on an application are not grounds for a reversal of a decision. Applicants appealing a residency decision shall contact the Residency Specialist in the Office of Admissions. 

Applicants who are eligible to receive services through the Bob Murphy Access Center should contact that office to assist with an appeal. 

As per Title 3, appeals must be submitted no later than “15 business days from the date of denial of admissions notification” or date of withdrawal notification. Appeals shall be submitted by the denied/withdrawn applicant using a CSULB Admissions Appeal through t
he CSULB Office of Admissions website
. On the CSULB Admissions Appeal Form, the appellant (the denied/withdrawn applicant) shall outline the reason(s) for appealing the decision and must provide supporting documentation.  Appeals for denials at the CSU level will be reviewed by CSULB Office of Admissions in consultation with the graduate program. Once the appeal is submitted, the Office of Admissions shall consult with the appropriate units (e.g., academic program, department and, as needed, the Dean of Graduate Studies or designee) to carefully consider the information presented.    

Appeals for denials at the graduate program level will be reviewed by the program. If the applicant meets CSU minimum requirements, the graduate program may, at its discretion, consider new, serious, and/or compelling information. If the graduate program agrees to reconsider the admissions decision and offer admission, the graduate program will make its recommendation to the Dean of Graduate Studies or designee. If approved, the Dean of Graduate Studies or designee will inform the Office of Admissions and the graduate program of the final decision. 

The Office of Admissions will notify the appellant within 4-6 weeks of the response to their appeal. Only one appeal may be submitted per application. In addition, as per Title 3, only one appeal may be submitted per academic term.

Print (opens a new window)
Help (opens a new window)

T

                                    SERVICES
                                
Emergency Information

Crisis Assistance

CARES Team

Accessibility Statement

Student Health Center

                                        Colleges
                                    
The Arts

Education

Business Administration

Professional and International Education

Engineering

Liberal Arts

Health & Human Services

Natural Sciences & Mathematics

Engineering

Liberal Arts

Health & Human Services

Natural Sciences & Mathematics

                                        Additional Resources
                                    
About CSULB

University
 Careers

University Police

Campus Directory

Strategic Communications

Download Document Reader

Strategic Communications

C S U L B
 Contact Us

CSU

Site Index

Feedback

SERVICES

Emergency Information

Crisis Assistance

CARES Team

Accessibility Statement

Student Health Center

Colleges

The Arts

Education

Business Administration

Professional and International Education

Engineering

Liberal Arts

Health & Human Services

Natural Sciences & Mathematics

Additional Resources

About CSULB

University
 Careers

University Police

Campus Directory

Strategic Communications

Download Document Reader

C S U L B
 Contact Us

California State University 
Long Beach

                                            1250 Bellflower Boulevard
                                        
Long Beach, California
 
90840

                                        562.985.4111
                                    
All 
catalogs
 © 2024 California State University, Long Beach.
 
Powered by 
Modern Campus Catalog™
.

