
Online Help - California State University, Long Beach - Modern Campus Catalog™

Skip to Content

Modern Campus Catalog™ Online Help

Close Window
 
This document contains help on the following topics:

Selecting a Different Catalog

Searching the Catalog

Search Options

Browsing the Catalog

Printing Pages of the Catalog

For additional help, please contact 
CSULB Curriculum Support
.

 1. Selecting a Different Catalog

BACK TO TOP

There may be more than one catalog available from the
		California State University, Long Beach		system e-catalog Gateway at a time.
		If there is more than one, you will see a dropdown box toward the top of the page with the name
		of the current catalog. Clicking the dropdown box provides
		access to other available catalogs. Selecting an alternate
		catalog will load it into the Gateway.
		If you do not see the dropdown box, then only a single catalog		is currently published.

 2. Searching the Catalog

BACK TO TOP

The 
Catalog Search
 (shown at the top of the navigation) allows quick retrieval of catalog content that matches your interests.

To use the 
Catalog Search
, simply enter a search keyword or phrase and press ENTER. The search will find any matching content in the catalog including courses, programs, school/colleges, departments or other narrative content.

 2.1. Search Options 

BACK TO TOP

Search options are available by clicking on the 
Advanced Search
 link below the regular search form or by clicking the 
Modify Search Options 
 link after performing a search. The search options offer more precise searching of the catalog content.

To limit your search to only specific types of catalog content, check only the checkboxes for content categories you wish to include in your search.

Check the "
Whole Word/Phrase
" check box to search for an exact match for a keyword or phrase. For instance, entering "bio" will only return hits in which the term "bio" stands alone; it will not return any instances of the term "biology". The same is true if you enter a phrase.

Click "
Show Prefix List
" to display a list of all course prefixes available in the catalog. You may enter a keyword phrase that includes a course prefix and code (like "ENG 101") to better locate a specific course. The closest available matches will be returned first.

Click the 
Search
 button to perform the search.

 3. Browsing the Catalog

BACK TO TOP

Overview

You may easily browse through the catalogs by using the different navigation
		links on the left side of the page. Each catalog may have its own distinct
		set of navigation links.

Some links may display pages about the catalog or other
		related information. Other links may display listings of
		courses		or
		programs		within the catalog. These navigation links may display other information
		that is broken down by various methods such as by
		school/colleges,
		by
		departments,
		or by
		program,
		or
		course		types.

Some pages may show "
Go to Information...
"
		links following a school/college		or
		department		which, when clicked, will display more information about that
		school/college		or
		department.	  

		Course		and
		program		titles are almost always shown as links. Clicking on a course		title will display course information below the course title about the
		course				 (course information may be shown in a pop up window if you have an older browser). Clicking on a program		title will display all the related information for the
		program.

FlashPoint™ Links

Some
		school/colleges, departments, programs, and courses		may have FlashPoint Links associated with them that may be a text
		link or a click-able graphic. These FlashPoint Links are links to
		an additional digital resource. The digital resource may be another web
		page, a text document, audio, video, or many other types of media and
		may require a special browser plug-in.

To view a FlashPoint Link, simply click on it. All FlashPoint
		Links will be displayed in a new pop up window.

 3.1. 
Printing Pages of the Catalog

BACK TO TOP

To print a page click the print link. The "
Print Friendly
" version will open up with
		just the content of the page in it (no navigation or header). If you click the print link on a
		"
Print Friendly
" page the browser will popup with the print dialog allowing you to print that page.

Problems with Gateway Print Links

If your browser does not support the print link you may need to use the operating
		system or web browser's built in print functions instead.

									Print this page.
							
All 
catalogs
 © 2024 California State University, Long Beach.
 
Powered by 
Modern Campus Catalog™
.

