Study Applied Statistics - I School Online Skip to main Menu Apply Now External link: open_in_new Cybersecurity expand_more Curriculum expand_more Certificate in Applied Data Science What is Cybersecurity? MICS Class Profile Data Science expand_more Curriculum What Is Data Science? Careers in Data Science MIDS Class Profile Study Applied Statistics Admissions expand_more International Admissions Tuition and Financial Aid expand_more Fellowships Events Experience expand_more Faculty Student Profiles Alumni Profiles Video Library Apply Now External link: open_in_new Home / Data Science / Study Applied Statistics Data Science Curriculum What Is Data Science? Careers in Data Science Study Applied Statistics MIDS Class Profile Study Applied Statistics What Is Applied Statistics? Applied statistics is a uniquely analytical career field. Students who study applied statistics build critical thinking and problem-solving skills in data analysis and empirical research, preparing themselves for careers in various industries — from engineering to healthcare and beyond. If you’re interested in managing, analyzing, interpreting, and drawing conclusions from data, a degree focusing on applied statistics might be for you. Applied statistics involves analyzing data to help define and determine business needs. While potentially bringing you closer to your career goals, an applied statistics master’s degree program teaches students how to take their advanced statistical knowledge and complex quantitative skills and turn them into must-have assets for companies — big and small. Statisticians, data analysts, and other data professionals use applied statistics across industries to solve practical problems in today’s data-centric world. Applied statistics has a wide variety of uses, from determining the effectiveness of new products to improving marketing and sales efficiency. Government agencies and nonprofits can even use data to help prevent disease, collect demographic information, and steer political campaigns. Companies that know how to use data effectively can set themselves apart in the market, as data-driven strategies can help increase revenue and decrease spending. As business leaders grow their understanding of the power of data for their companies, the need for statisticians and other professionals with advanced applied statistics skills is becoming apparent. A wide variety of opportunities may be available to graduates with degrees focusing on applied statistics. Such career paths include: Business Statistician Data scientist Data analyst Engineering Quality engineer Statistical engineer Validation engineer Finance and Accounting Risk analyst Financial analyst Quantitative analyst Actuarial director Financial crimes analyst Compliance officer Information Technology Machine learning researcher Intelligent automation associate Statistical programmer Data architect Marketing Marketing analyst Business analyst Marketing research manager Medical and Healthcare Biostatistician Clinical informatics specialist Health research analyst Statistical scientist Science and Research & Development Modeler Cognitive AI data scientist Study Applied Statistics with a Master’s in Data Science Both data science and applied statistics are rooted in and related to the field of statistics. Applied statistics is the foundation on which data science is built, and both make big data relevant to businesses and industries. Much of the core courses and training designed for professionals in data science, statistics, and analytics are based on similar statistical education. Fields that involve analyzing data-based findings or results often leverage trained operations research analysts External link: open_in_new , statisticians External link: open_in_new , and scientists to interpret and report information. Earning a master’s in data science may be a viable choice for professionals interested in learning how to mine data to make predictions and guide strategy. Data science technology has the power to differentiate and optimize the way business leaders approach decisions, processes, and the future. Data scientists employ complex computing techniques to extract information from large data sets, help companies forecast potential problems, focus on areas with growth potential, and make strategic, data-driven business decisions. A master’s in data science allows students to recognize patterns in data and skillfully obtain, continually reorganize, and manage data. While data science is rooted in statistics, applied statistics takes a mathematical approach to analyzing and solving problems with gathered data. Applied statistics is useful for solving real-world problems and drawing conclusions for business decisions. Applied Statistics Course The Master of Information and Data Science (MIDS) program delivered online by the UC Berkeley School of Information (I School) prepares data science professionals to be leaders in the field. The WASC-accredited program features a multidisciplinary curriculum that draws on insights from the social sciences, computer science, statistics, management, and law. While all universities and programs are different, courses are designed to provide students with an understanding of how data science is used to inform decision making in organizations. The MIDS curriculum features a wide range of core and elective courses, including: Introduction to Data Science Programming: This course is an introduction to the Python programming language. It highlights a range of Python objects and control structures. Research Design and Application for Data and Analysis: This course introduces students to the burgeoning data science landscape, with a particular focus on learning how to apply data science reasoning techniques to uncover, enrich, and answer questions facing decision makers across various industries and organizations. Statistics for Data Science: This course provides students with an understanding of many different types of quantitative research methods and statistical techniques for analyzing data. Fundamentals of Data Engineering: This course delves into the fundamentals of data storage, retrieval, and processing systems in the context of common data analytics processing needs. Applied Machine Learning: This course covers the rapidly growing machine learning field. The goal of this course is to provide a broad introduction to the key ideas in machine learning through intuition and practical examples. Experiments and Causal Inference: This course introduces students to experimentation and design-based inference. Students are taught to collect data in a way that’s creative and forward looking. Machine Learning at Scale: This course teaches students how to apply crucial machine learning techniques to solve problems, run evaluations and interpret results, and understand scaling up from thousands of data points to billions. Data Visualization: This course focuses on the design of visual representations of data in order to discover patterns, answer questions, convey findings, drive decisions, and provide persuasive evidence. Students in this course gain the practical knowledge needed to create effective tools for both exploring and explaining data. Statistical Methods for Discrete Response, Time Series, and Panel Data: This course takes a more advanced look at both classical linear and linear regression models, including techniques for studying causality, and introduces the fundamental techniques of time series modeling. Degree Information The multidisciplinary online Master of Information and Data Science program educates burgeoning data science leaders by preparing them to derive insights from real-world data sets, use the latest tools and analytical methods, and interpret and communicate their findings in ways that change minds and behaviors. The core curriculum focuses on research design, data cleansing, data engineering, information ethics and privacy, statistical analysis, and other essential and specialized skills data science professionals typically use. With flexible program paths, it’s designed for the working professional’s schedule and can be completed in 12-32 months depending on your needs. The standard part-time pathway allows students to take two courses a semester and finish the program in 20 months. Develop the Skills Needed to Become a Data Science Leader at Top Organizations Earn a Master of Information and Data Science online from UC Berkeley. Request More Information Next Step REQUEST INFO close Close Modal Request More Information Next Step Cybersecurity Data Science Admissions Experience Blog Contact Us 2U, Our Program Partner Legal Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Sitemap COVID-19 Resources © 2024 UC Berkeley School of Information close Close Modal Request More Information Next Step Your Opt Out Preference Signal is Honored PRIVACY PREFERENCE CENTER When you visit our website, we store cookies on your browser to collect information. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences, or your device, and is mostly used to make the site work as you expect it to and to provide a more personalized web experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of Strictly Necessary Cookies, as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website. View our Cookie Policy by clicking the link below. DO NOT SELL OR SHARE MY PERSONAL INFORMATION To opt out of sale or sharing of your personal information for targeted advertising, turn off the toggle in the Ad Targeting Cookies / Share or Sale of Personal Personal Information category below by swiping to it to the left (gray). Your selection is saved to this browser on this device. If you clear your browser cookies, you will need to opt out again. To learn more about 2U’s use of your data, please see our Privacy Policy, available at the link below. View Our Cookie Policy View Our Privacy Policy Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary Cookies Always Active These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms.    You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information. Functional Cookies Functional Cookies These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalisation, including in searches. They may be set by us or by third party providers whose services we have added to our pages. If you do not allow these cookies then some or all of these services may not function properly. Performance Cookies Performance Cookies These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site.    All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance. Ad Targeting Cookies/Share or Sale of Personal Information Ad Targeting Cookies/Share or Sale of Personal Information We disclose information to advertising partners to deliver ads that are more relevant to you, which may be considered a “sale” or a “sharing” of information for targeted advertising under certain laws. To opt out of “sales,” “sharing,” and targeting advertising, you may turn off the toggle by swiping it to the left (gray). This will also opt you out of all targeting cookies. Targeting Cookies Switch Label These cookies are set by our advertising partners to provide behavioral advertising and re-marketing analytical data. They collect any type of browsing information necessary to create profiles and to understand user habits in order to develop an individual and specific advertising routine. The profile created regarding your browsing interest and behavior is used to customize the ads you see when you access other websites. Back Button Cookie List Search Icon Filter Icon Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices